Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy 
Adopted effective January 24, 2012; as amended effective January 29, 2019 

The  Federal  Open  Market  Committee 
(FOMC)  is  firmly  committed  to  fulfilling  its 
statutory  mandate  from  the  Congress  of  pro-
moting  maximum  employment,  stable  prices, 
and  moderate  long-term  interest  rates.    The 
Committee seeks to explain its monetary policy 
decisions to the public as clearly as possible.  
Such  clarity  facilitates  well-informed  deci-
sionmaking by households and businesses, re-
duces economic and financial uncertainty, in-
creases  the  effectiveness  of  monetary  policy, 
and enhances transparency and accountability, 
which are essential in a democratic society.  

Inflation, employment, and long-term inter-
est rates fluctuate over time in response to eco-
nomic and financial disturbances.  Moreover, 
monetary policy actions tend to influence eco-
nomic activity and prices with a lag.  Therefore, 
the  Committee’s  policy  decisions  reflect  its 
longer-run goals, its medium-term outlook, and 
its assessments of the balance of risks, includ-
ing risks to the financial system that could im-
pede the attainment of the Committee’s goals.  
The inflation rate over the longer run is pri-
marily  determined  by  monetary  policy,  and 
hence the Committee has the ability to specify 
a longer-run goal for inflation.  The Committee 
reaffirms its judgment that inflation at the rate 
of 2 percent, as measured by the annual change 
in the price index for personal consumption ex-
penditures, is most consistent over the longer 
run with the Federal Reserve’s statutory man-
date.   The  Committee  would  be  concerned  if 
inflation were running persistently above or be-
low this objective.  Communicating this sym-
metric inflation goal clearly to the public helps 
keep longer-term inflation expectations firmly 
anchored, thereby fostering price stability and 
moderate long-term interest rates and enhanc-
ing the Committee’s ability to promote maxi-
mum  employment  in  the  face  of  significant 

economic disturbances.  The maximum level of 
employment is largely determined by nonmon-
etary  factors  that  affect  the  structure  and  dy-
namics of the labor market.  These factors may 
change over time and may not be directly meas-
urable.  Consequently, it would not be appro-
priate to specify a fixed goal for employment; 
rather, the Committee’s policy decisions must 
be informed by assessments of the maximum 
level of employment, recognizing that such as-
sessments are necessarily uncertain and subject 
to revision.  The Committee considers a wide 
range  of  indicators  in  making  these  assess-
ments.  Information about Committee partici-
pants’ estimates of the longer-run normal rates 
of  output  growth  and  unemployment  is  pub-
lished four times per year in the FOMC’s Sum-
mary of Economic Projections.  For example, 
in  the  most  recent  projections,  the  median  of 
FOMC  participants’  estimates  of  the  longer-
run normal rate of unemployment was 4.4 per-
cent.  

In  setting  monetary  policy,  the  Committee 
seeks to  mitigate deviations  of inflation from 
its longer-run goal and deviations of employ-
ment from the Committee’s assessments of its 
maximum level.   These objectives are gener-
ally complementary.  However, under circum-
stances in which the Committee judges that the 
objectives are not complementary, it follows a 
balanced approach in promoting them, taking 
into  account  the  magnitude  of  the  deviations 
and the potentially different time horizons over 
which employment and inflation are projected 
to  return  to  levels  judged  consistent  with  its 
mandate. 

The  Committee  intends  to  reaffirm  these 
principles and to make adjustments as appro-
priate at its annual organizational meeting each 
January. 

1