 
Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy 
Adopted effective January 24, 2012; as amended effective January 26, 2016 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

ability  to  promote  maximum  employment  in 
the face of significant economic disturbances. 
 
The maximum level of employment is largely 
determined by nonmonetary factors that affect 
the  structure and dynamics  of  the  labor  mar-
ket.  These factors may change over time and 
may not be directly measurable.  Consequent-
 
 
ly,  it  would  not  be  appropriate  to  specify  a 
fixed  goal  for  employment;  rather,  the  Com-
mittee’s policy decisions must be informed by 
assessments  of  the  maximum  level  of  em-
 
ployment,  recognizing  that  such  assessments 
are  necessarily  uncertain  and  subject  to  revi-
 
sion.  The Committee considers a wide range 
of  indicators  in  making  these  assessments.  
Information  about  Committee  participants’ 
 
estimates  of  the  longer-run  normal  rates  of 
 
output growth and unemployment is published 
 
four times per year in the FOMC’s Summary 
 
of Economic Projections.  For example, in the 
most recent projections, the median of FOMC 
participants’  estimates  of  the  longer-run  nor-
  
mal rate of unemployment was 4.9 percent. 

 
 
 
In  setting  monetary  policy,  the  Committee 
seeks to mitigate deviations of inflation from 
its longer-run goal and deviations of employ-
 
ment from the Committee’s assessments of its 
maximum level.  These objectives are general-
ly  complementary.  However,  under  circum-
stances  in  which  the  Committee  judges  that 
the  objectives  are  not  complementary,  it  fol-
lows a balanced approach in promoting them, 
taking into account the magnitude of the devi-
ations and the potentially different time hori-
zons over which employment and inflation are 
 
projected to return to levels judged consistent 
with its mandate. 

The  Committee  intends  to  reaffirm  these 
principles and to make adjustments as appro-
 
 
priate  at  its  annual  organizational  meeting 
each January.  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The  Federal  Open  Market  Committee 
(FOMC)  is  firmly  committed  to  fulfilling  its 
statutory  mandate  from  the  Congress  of  pro-
moting  maximum  employment,  stable  prices, 
 
and  moderate  long-term  interest  rates.  The 
Committee seeks to explain its monetary poli-
cy decisions to the public as clearly as possi-
ble.  Such  clarity  facilitates  well-informed 
decisionmaking  by  households  and  business-
es, reduces economic and financial uncertain-
 
ty,  increases  the  effectiveness  of  monetary 
policy,  and  enhances  transparency  and  ac-
countability,  which  are  essential  in  a  demo-
cratic society.  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

Inflation, employment, and long-term inter-
est  rates  fluctuate  over  time  in  response  to 
economic  and  financial  disturbances.  More-
over,  monetary  policy  actions  tend  to  influ-
ence economic activity and prices with a lag.  
 
Therefore,  the  Committee’s  policy  decisions 
reflect  its  longer-run  goals,  its  medium-term 
 
outlook, and its assessments of the balance of 
 
risks,  including  risks  to  the  financial  system 
that could impede the attainment of the Com-
mittee’s goals. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The  inflation  rate  over  the  longer  run  is 
 
primarily determined by monetary policy, and 
hence the Committee has the ability to specify 
a longer-run goal for inflation.  The Commit-
 
tee reaffirms its judgment that inflation at the 
rate  of  2  percent,  as  measured  by  the  annual 
change  in  the  price  index  for  personal  con-
 
sumption  expenditures,  is  most  consistent 
 
over the longer run with the Federal Reserve’s 
 
statutory mandate.  The Committee would be 
concerned if inflation were running persistent-
ly above or below this objective.  Communi-
 
cating this symmetric inflation goal clearly to 
the  public  helps  keep  longer-term  inflation 
expectations  firmly  anchored,  thereby  foster-
ing  price  stability  and  moderate  long-term 
interest  rates  and  enhancing  the  Committee’s 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1