            

Figure 2: Overview of FOMC participants’ assessments of appropriate monetary policy 
 

 

 

 
                  

 
Appropriate Timing of Policy Firming 

 

 

 

 

                

 
Number of Participants 

NOTE: In the upper panel, the height of each bar denotes the number of FOMC participants who judge that, under appropriate monetary policy and in 
 
the absence of further shocks to the economy, the first increase in the target federal funds rate from its current range of 0 to ¼ percent will occur in 
the  specified  calendar  year.  In  the  lower  panel,  each  shaded  circle  indicates  the  value  (rounded  to  the  nearest  0.25  percent)  of  an  individual 
 
participant’s judgment of the appropriate level of the target federal funds rate at the end of the specified calendar year or over the longer run. 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 

9 

8 

7 

6 

5 

4 

3 

2 

1 

0 

 
8 

 
7 

 
6 

 
5 

 
4 

 
3 

 
2 

 
1 

 
0 

2012 

2013 

2014 

2015 

2016 

Appropriate Pace of Policy Firming 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                    

 
Percent 

 
Target Federal Funds Rate at Year-End 

 

 
2012 

 
2013 

 
2014 

 
Longer run 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Explanation of Policy Path Charts 


 

These charts are based on policymakers’ projections of the appropriate path for the 
FOMC’s target federal funds rate.  The target funds rate is measured as the level of 
the target rate at the end of the calendar year or in the longer run.  Appropriate 
monetary policy, by definition, is the future path of policy that each participant deems 
most likely to foster outcomes for economic activity and inflation that best satisfy his 
or her interpretation of the Federal Reserve’s dual objectives of maximum 
employment and stable prices. 

 	  In the upper panel, the shaded bars represent the number of FOMC 

participants who project that the initial increase in the target federal funds rate 
(from its current range of 0 to ¼ percent) would appropriately occur in the 
specified calendar year. 

 	  In the lower panel, the dots represent individual policymakers’ projections of 
the appropriate federal funds rate target at the end of each of the next several 
years and in the longer run.  Each dot in that chart represents one 
policymaker’s projection.  Please note that for purposes of this chart the 
responses are rounded to the nearest ¼ percent, with the exception that all 
 
values below 37.5 basis points are rounded to ¼ percent.   

These projections of the timing of the initial increase of the target federal funds rate 
and the path of the target federal funds rate are the ones that policymakers view as 
compatible with their individual economic projections.      

