MONETARY POLICY IMPLEMENTATION -- Rates on reserve balances and on 
discounts and advances unchanged. 

Approved. 
November 8, 2018. 

In a joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and the Board 

today, the FOMC decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 
2 to 2.25 percent.  Consistent with the FOMC's decision to leave the target range for the 
federal funds rate unchanged, the Board approved maintaining the existing interest rate 
(2.20 percent) paid on required and excess reserve balances.  At today's meeting, the 
Board also approved the establishment of the interest rate on discounts and advances 
made under the primary credit program (the primary credit rate) at the existing level 
(2.75 percent). 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Minneapolis, Kansas 
City, and San Francisco had voted on October 25, 2018, and the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas 
had voted on November 1, to establish the primary credit rate at the existing level of 
2.75 percent. 

Overall, Federal Reserve Bank directors remained positive about the economic 

outlook and had favorable reports on various economic conditions across their Districts. 
Several directors noted continued strength in consumer spending and confidence. 
Directors pointed to ongoing tightening in the labor market for both low- and high-skilled 
workers, and some directors also noted resulting wage increases.  In addition, the 
implications of trade policy for activity in affected sectors remained a concern for some 
directors.  Inflation was at or near the Federal Open Market Committee's 2 percent 
objective. 

The directors of all twelve Reserve Banks favored establishing the primary credit 

rate at the current level of 2.75 percent.  These directors judged that it would be 
appropriate to maintain the current level of short-term interest rates and assess whether 
incoming data support the outlook for continued economic growth, strong labor market 
conditions, and inflation remaining near 2 percent. 

No sentiment was expressed by the Board at today's meeting for changing the 

primary credit rate at this time, and the Board approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at the existing level of 2.75 percent.  (NOTE:  At the joint Board-FOMC 

Page  1 

meeting on September 26, 2018, the Board had approved the establishment of the 
primary credit rate at 2.75 percent, an increase from 2.50 percent.) 

The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of the 
existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under 
the secondary and seasonal credit programs.  As specified by the formula for the 
secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit 
rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be reset 
every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the rate on 
three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Powell, Vice Chairman Clarida, Vice Chairman

 for Supervision Quarles, and Governor Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  FOMC Statement (with attached Implementation Note) and 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, November 2, 2018. 

transmissions from Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, 
September 8, 2018. 

Page  2 

