DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by nine Reserve Banks to lower 
the primary credit rate; requests by three Reserve Banks to maintain the existing 
rate. 

Existing rate maintained. 
December 15, 2008. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, 
and San Francisco had voted on December 11, 2008, to establish a rate for discounts 
and advances under the primary credit program (primary credit rate) of 1/2 percent 
(a reduction from 1-1/4 percent).  The directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia had voted on December 4 and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks 
of Boston and Chicago had voted on December 11 to establish a primary credit rate of 
3/4 percent.  The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of St. Louis, Kansas City, and 
Dallas had voted on December 11 to maintain the existing rate. 

Federal Reserve Bank directors supporting a 75-basis-point reduction in the 

primary credit rate viewed the severe strains in financial markets as exerting increased 
restraint on economic activity and the outlook for activity as having deteriorated notably. 
Given the already considerable--and rising--slack in labor and product markets and 
falling prices for energy and other commodities, these directors viewed inflation 
pressures as having abated markedly.  Under these circumstances, the directors 
concluded that monetary policy makers should act decisively to stimulate aggregate 
demand.  Other Federal Reserve Bank directors also saw economic prospects as 
weaker and inflation pressures as diminishing but concluded that a 50-basis-point 
decrease in the primary credit rate would provide the appropriate amount of stimulus at 
this time. 

Federal Reserve Bank directors in favor of maintaining the existing primary credit 

rate agreed that the outlook for economic activity had weakened further.  Rather than 
change the stance of monetary policy, they preferred for now to use other Federal 
Reserve tools to stimulate the economy. 

Today, Board members considered the primary credit rate and discussed, on a 

preliminary basis, their individual assessments of the appropriate rate and its 
communication, which would be discussed at the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee tomorrow.  No sentiment was expressed for changing the primary credit rate 
before the Committee's meeting, and the existing rate was maintained. 

Page  1 

Participating in this determination:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, 

and Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, December 15, 2008. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, December 12, 2008. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by twelve Reserve Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates and of the 
auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction Facility. 

Approved. 
December 15, 2008. 

The Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia on 

December 4, 2008, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Cleveland, 
Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San 
Francisco on December 11 of the formulas for calculating the rates applicable to 
discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit programs and 
renewal of the auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction Facility. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 

Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, December 15, 2008. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, December 12, 2008. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Reduction in the primary credit rate from 
1-1/4 percent to 1/2 percent. 

Approved. 
December 16, 2008. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, 
and San Francisco had voted on December 11, 2008, to establish a rate for discounts 
and advances under the primary credit program (primary credit rate) of 1/2 percent 

Page  2 

(a reduction from 1-1/4 percent).  The directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia had voted on December 4 and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks 
of Boston and Chicago had voted on December 11 to establish a primary credit rate of 
3/4 percent.  The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of St. Louis, Kansas City, and 
Dallas had voted on December 11 to maintain the existing rate.  At its meeting on 
December 15, the Board had taken no action on the requests to lower the primary credit 
rate. 

At today's meeting, there was a consensus for a 75-basis-point reduction, and 

the Board approved a reduction in the primary credit rate from 1-1/4 percent 
to 1/2 percent, effective immediately for the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco.  Earlier today, the 
Federal Open Market Committee had decided to lower its target for the federal funds 
rate from 1 percent by establishing a target range of 0 to 1/4 percent.  It was understood 
that a press release announcing the reductions in the two rates would be issued. 

In addition, the Secretary was authorized to inform the remaining Reserve Banks, 

on their establishment of a primary credit rate of 1/2 percent, of the Board's approval. 
(NOTE:  Subsequently, the remaining Reserve Banks established that rate and were 
informed of the Board's approval, effective December 16 for the Federal Reserve Banks 
of Chicago and Kansas City, effective December 17 for the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Boston, St. Louis, and Dallas, and effective December 18, 2008, for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.) 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and

 Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Press releases and wires from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, December 12, 2008. 

December 16, 17, and 18, and Federal Register document, 
December 22, 2008. 

Page  3 

