DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by four Reserve Banks to maintain 
the existing rate and requests by eight Reserve Banks to increase the primary 
credit rate. 

Existing rate maintained. 
July 25, 2016. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of New York and Minneapolis had voted on July 14, 2016, 
and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta and Chicago had voted on 
July 21, to reestablish the existing rate for discounts and advances (1 percent) under 
the primary credit program (primary credit rate).  The directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, and San Francisco had voted on July 14, and 
the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, St. Louis, Kansas City, and 
Dallas had voted on July 21, to establish a rate of 1-1/4 percent (an increase from 
1 percent).  At its meeting on June 13, the Board had taken no action on requests by the 
Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Reserve 
Banks to increase the primary credit rate. 

Federal Reserve Bank directors generally indicated that economic activity had 

continued to expand at a moderate pace, though their reports varied somewhat across 
different sectors and Districts.  Several directors cited improvements in the housing 
sector, as well as steady or increasing levels of consumer spending.  Many directors 
stated that the initial impact of the recent U.K. referendum and the associated global 
financial developments on U.S. economic conditions had been limited.  However, some 
directors noted increased uncertainty about the U.S. economic outlook stemming from 
these developments.  Several directors also noted ongoing weakness in export-related 
industries.  Labor market indicators were improving overall, but some directors pointed 
to variability in recent job gains.  Many directors reported increasing tightness in the 
labor market for certain skilled positions, particularly in the construction sector.  Inflation 
remained below the Federal Reserve's 2 percent objective. 

Against this backdrop, some Federal Reserve Bank directors recommended that 

the primary credit rate be maintained at its current level of 1 percent.  In general, they 
judged that the economic outlook and below-target inflation supported maintaining the 
current accommodative stance of monetary policy.  Other Federal Reserve Bank 
directors recommended increasing the primary credit rate to 1-1/4 percent, in light of 
actual and expected strengthening in economic activity and their expectations for 
inflation to gradually move toward the 2 percent objective. 

Page  1 

Today, Board members considered the primary credit rate and discussed, on a 

preliminary basis, their individual assessments of the appropriate rate and its 
communication, which would be discussed at the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee this week.  No sentiment was expressed for changing the primary credit rate 
before the Committee's meeting, and the existing rate was maintained.  Thereafter, a 
discussion of economic and financial developments and issues related to possible 
policy actions took place. 

Participating in this determination:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governors Tarullo, Powell, and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, July 22, 2016. 

July 25, 2016. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by twelve Reserve Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates. 

Formulas renewed. 
July 25, 2016. 

The formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances 

under the secondary and seasonal credit programs were renewed by the Board for the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Minneapolis, and 
San Francisco on July 14, 2016, and for the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, 
Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas on July 21. 

Participating in this determination:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governors Tarullo, Powell, and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, July 22, 2016. 

July 25, 2016. 

Page  2 

