DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by six Reserve Banks to maintain 
the existing rate; request by one Reserve Bank to decrease the primary credit 
rate; and requests by five Reserve Banks to increase the primary credit rate. 

Existing rate maintained. 
August 31, 2015. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Louis had voted on August 20, 
2015, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, and San 
Francisco had voted on August 27, to reestablish the existing rate for discounts and 
advances (3/4 percent) under the primary credit program (primary credit rate).  The 
directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis had voted on August 27 to 
establish a rate of 1/2 percent (a decrease from 3/4 percent).  The directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia had voted on August 20, and the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Kansas City, and Dallas had voted on 
August 27, to establish a rate of 1 percent (an increase from 3/4 percent).  At its 
meeting on July 27, the Board had taken no action on similar requests by the 
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Kansas City, and Dallas Reserve Banks to 
increase, and by the Minneapolis Reserve Bank to decrease, the primary credit rate in 
the same manner as currently requested. 

At today's meeting, no sentiment was expressed in favor of considering the 

primary credit rate, and the existing rate was maintained. 

Participating in this determination:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governors Powell and Brainard. 

Background: 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, August 28, 2015. 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, 

August 31, 2015. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by twelve Reserve Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates. 

Approved. 
August 31, 2015. 

Page  1 

The Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, 

Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Louis on August 20, 2015, and by the Federal Reserve Banks 
of Boston, New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San 
Francisco on August 27, of the formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts 
and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit programs. 

Voting for this action:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governors Powell and Brainard. 

Background: 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, August 28, 2015. 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, 

August 31, 2015. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by three Reserve Banks to 
maintain the existing rate; request by one Reserve Bank to decrease the primary 
credit rate; and requests by eight Reserve Banks to increase the primary credit 
rate. 

Existing rate maintained. 
September 15, 2015. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston had voted on September 3, 2015, and the directors 
of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York and Chicago had voted on September 10, to 
reestablish the existing rate for discounts and advances (3/4 percent) under the primary 
credit program (primary credit rate).  The directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis had voted on September 3 to establish a rate of 1/2 percent (a decrease 
from 3/4 percent).  The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia and 
St. Louis had voted on September 3, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco had voted on 
September 10, to establish a rate of 1 percent (an increase from 3/4 percent).  At its 
meeting on August 31, the Board had taken no action on requests by the Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, Richmond, Kansas City, and Dallas Reserve Banks to increase, and by the 
Minneapolis Reserve Bank to decrease, the primary credit rate. 

Federal Reserve Bank directors reported ongoing moderate growth in economic 
activity, including stronger consumer spending, particularly for autos, and gains in the 
residential and commercial real estate sectors.  Some directors noted that economic 

Page  2 

growth had been somewhat faster than they had anticipated a few months ago.  In labor 
markets, some directors reported sustained employment gains and signs of wage 
pressures in some sectors and parts of the country.  Inflation, however, remained below 
the Federal Reserve's 2 percent objective, reflecting in part the effects of lower prices of 
imported goods.  Overall, directors were optimistic about the prospects for continued 
economic growth, but they also expressed uncertainty about the likely effects of recent 
international economic and financial developments for the domestic economy.  Against 
this backdrop, some directors recommended that the current primary credit rate be 
maintained. 

However, other Federal Reserve Bank directors favored either an increase or a 

decrease in the primary credit rate.  Directors requesting an increase in the primary 
credit rate (to 1 percent) viewed a move toward a more normal level as appropriate in 
light of improvements in economic and labor market conditions, as well as expectations 
for inflation to begin rising gradually toward its 2 percent objective over the medium 
term.  Some directors also judged that an increase in interest rates could help limit the 
risks to financial stability over the longer run.  The directors requesting a reduction in the 
primary credit rate (to 1/2 percent) judged that the lower rate would be appropriate given 
current and anticipated economic conditions, their outlook for continued low inflation, 
and potential downside risks to the domestic economy associated with international 
developments. 

Today, Board members considered the primary credit rate and discussed, on a 

preliminary basis, their individual assessments of the appropriate rate and its 
communication, which would be discussed at the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee this week.  No sentiment was expressed for changing the primary credit rate 
before the Committee's meeting, and the existing rate was maintained.  Thereafter, a 
discussion of economic and financial developments and issues related to possible 
policy actions took place. 

Participating in this determination:  Chair Yellen and Governors Tarullo,

 Powell, and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, September 11, 2015. 

September 15, 2015. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by twelve Reserve Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates. 

Approved.
September 15, 2015.
Page  3 

Approved. 
September 15, 2015. 

The Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 

Philadelphia, St. Louis, and Minneapolis on September 3, 2015, and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, 
Dallas, and San Francisco on September 10, of the formulas for calculating the rates 
applicable to discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit 
programs. 

Voting for this action:  Chair Yellen and Governors Tarullo, Powell, and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, September 11, 2015. 

September 15, 2015. 

Page  4 

