DISCOUNT WINDOW LENDING -- Proposal to lend to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 
through advances secured by obligations of the United States or any U.S. agency. 

Approved. 
July 13, 2008. 

Today, the Board considered a proposal to authorize the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York to make advances, if it determines that such lending is necessary, to the 
Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan 
Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac) under section 13(13) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The proposal was presented against the background of (1) potential difficulties for the 
companies to obtain funding in financial markets, which are currently under unusual 
stress, and (2) a three-part plan proposed by the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) 
to take action immediately to address the situation.  Board members generally agreed 
that the companies' potential difficulties in obtaining funds posed concerns about a 
possible systemic threat to financial stability and threatened to undermine further the 
functioning of residential mortgage markets and thus impede economic growth. 

Under the terms of the proposal, advances would be made on the companies' 

promissory notes, which would be secured by direct obligations of the United States or 
by obligations that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and 
interest by, any agency of the United States.  Each advance would be for a period not to 
exceed 90 days.  The Board approved the recommendation of the New York Reserve 
Bank that advances be made at the primary credit rate.  It was noted that the 
authorization was intended to supplement Treasury's authority to lend directly to 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Board members agreed that the authorization should 
only be used to provide backup liquidity to those companies and should only authorize 
loans to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

Board members also reviewed Treasury's three-part plan and its proposed 

consultative role for the Federal Reserve to protect the financial system from systemic 
risk going forward.  Board members favored strengthening the authority of the new 
regulator for the two companies and were agreeable to a consultative role for the 
Federal Reserve with the new regulator on certain supervisory matters. 

At the conclusion of the discussion, the Board approved the proposed 

authorization to make discount window loans to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac under the 
terms and circumstances discussed above.  (NOTE:  On September 7, 2008, the 
Federal Housing Finance Agency announced that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had 
been placed into conservatorship). 

Page  1 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 

Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Mishkin. 

Background:	 

Draft resolution authorizing discount window loans to Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac, July 13, 2008. 

Implementation:	  Resolution and press release, July 13, 2008. 

FINANCIAL MARKETS -- Proposals (1) to enhance the Primary Dealer Credit 
Facility and the Term Securities Lending Facility and (2) to temporarily provide a 
complementary exemption from restrictions in section 23A of the Federal Reserve 
Act and the Board's Regulation W. 

Discussed. 
Approved. 
September 14, 2008. 

Today, staff discussed with the Board proposed enhancements to the Primary 
Dealer Credit Facility (PDCF) and Term Securities Lending Facility (TSLF) to address 
potential market vulnerabilities that might result from an unwinding of the assets of a 
major financial institution.  The proposals would provide additional support to financial 
markets, particularly the market for tri-party repurchase agreements, by broadening the 
collateral accepted by both facilities. 

Board members' discussion of the proposals included consideration of their effect 
on the capital ratios of banks and bank holding companies, the potential risk of loss and 
likely administrative issues for the Federal Reserve under the proposals, and the 
proposals' possible effect on the incentives for market participants to secure other 
financing.  Board members agreed that the proposals presented the best alternative for 
mitigating potential risks and disruptions to financial markets. 

In light of the unusual and exigent circumstances that have continued since the 

Board authorized the PDCF at its meeting on March 16 and the TSLF by notation voting 
on March 11, 2008, and under section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act, the Board 
modified its prior authorizations to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to permit 
(1) credit to primary dealers under the PDCF to be secured by any collateral that is 
accepted by the tri-party repurchase agreement systems of JPMorgan Chase & Co. or 
The Bank of New York Company, Inc. as of September 12, 2008, subject to any 
exclusions or modifications determined by the Chairman, and (2) Treasury securities 
lent to primary dealers under the TSLF to be secured by a pledge of any investment-

Page  2 

grade debt securities.  All other conditions of the Board's initial authorizations for both 
facilities remain in effect.  (NOTE:  The Board extended its authorizations for the PDCF 
and the TSLF until April 30, 2009, by notation voting on November 24, 2008.  As 
required by section 129 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the 
Board approved reports of these modifications to the Congress on November 3 and 
approved a periodic report that updated these reports by notation voting on 
December 29, 2008.  At its meeting on January 27, 2009, the Board extended its 
authorizations for the PDCF and TSLF until October 30, 2009.  The Federal Open 
Market Committee also authorized the extensions for the TSLF.) 

Board members also approved temporarily providing a complementary 

exemption from the limitations on transactions with affiliates under section 23A of the 
Federal Reserve Act and the Board's Regulation W (Transactions Between Member 
Banks and Their Affiliates), subject to the Chairman's concurrence, in consultation with 
the Committee on Supervisory and Regulatory Affairs, on the text of an interim final rule 
with a request for public comment.  The exemption would allow any insured depository 
institution to provide liquidity to its affiliate for assets typically funded in the tri-party 
repurchase agreement market, subject to certain safety-and-soundness conditions, and 
would expire on January 30, 2009, unless extended by the Board.  (NOTE:  The Board 
approved a final rule that extended the expiration date for the exemption to October 30, 
2009, by notation voting on January 27, 2009.) 

Participating in these determinations and voting for these actions:
 Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and
 Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background:	 
Implementation:	  Resolutions, press release, and Federal Register document 

Proposed resolutions, September 14, 2008. 

(Docket No. R-1330), September 14, 2008. 

FINANCIAL MARKETS -- Extension of credit to American International Group, Inc. 

Discussed. 
Approved. 
September 16, 2008. 

Today, the Board discussed the funding difficulties of American International 

Group, Inc. (AIG), New York, New York.  The evidence available to the Board indicated 
that AIG, a provider of a wide range of products for both institutional investors and 
consumers to protect against casualty and financial losses, had experienced a rapid 

Page  3 

and extreme liquidity shortage.  Available evidence also indicated that the company 
faced the imminent prospect of declaring bankruptcy. 

The ensuing discussion of the Board members included consideration of the 

effect of AIG's disorderly failure on financial markets, the position of the Department of 
the Treasury on an extension of credit to AIG, and the circumstances presented by this 
situation as compared with situations recently confronted by the Board.  Board 
members agreed that the disorderly failure of AIG was likely to have a systemic effect 
on financial markets that were already experiencing a significant level of fragility and 
that the best alternative available was to lend to AIG to assist it in meeting its 
obligations in an orderly manner as they came due.  Board members also agreed that 
the terms of the loan should best protect the interests of the U.S. government and 
taxpayers.  Their discussion of terms included collateralizing the loan with all the assets 
of AIG, receiving a 79.9 percent equity interest in AIG, and reserving the right to veto 
the payment of dividends to common and preferred shareholders. 

Given the unusual and exigent circumstances, the Board authorized the Federal 

Reserve Bank of New York under section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act to extend 
credit to AIG or any of its subsidiaries, in an amount up to $85 billion, if the New York 
Reserve Bank obtains evidence that the borrower is unable to secure adequate credit 
accommodations from other banking institutions.  The credit should be secured to the 
satisfaction of the New York Reserve Bank and should not exceed a period of 
24 months, subject to extension by the Reserve Bank after consultation with the Board. 
The New York Reserve Bank may, as it deems appropriate, impose conditions on its 
extension of credit to AIG, such as those described in the proposed Summary of Terms 
for Senior Bridge Facility (Agreement).  The Board also approved the recommendation 
of the New York Reserve Bank that credit be extended at the rate in the proposed 
Agreement.  (NOTE:  As required by section 129 of the Emergency Economic 
Stabilization Act of 2008, the Board approved a report of this action to the Congress by 
notation voting on November 3, 2008.  The Board authorized the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York to borrow securities in an amount of up to $37.8 billion from certain 
insurance subsidiaries of AIG at its meeting on October 6, 2008.) 

Participating in these determinations and voting for these actions:
 Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and
 Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Resolution and press release, September 16, 2008. 

Proposed resolution and Agreement, September 16, 2008. 

FINANCIAL MARKETS -- Proposals (1) to finance purchases of asset-backed 
commercial paper from money market mutual funds and (2) to temporarily provide 
Page  4 

complementary exemptions from restrictions in sections 23A and 23B of the 
Federal Reserve Act and the Board's Regulation W and from the Board's leverage 
and risk-based capital guidelines. 

Discussed. 
Approved. 
September 19, 2008. 

Today, the staff presented a proposal to establish a facility that would extend 

nonrecourse secured credit to depository institutions and bank holding companies 
seeking to finance their purchases of high-quality asset-backed commercial paper 
(ABCP) from money market mutual funds (MMMFs).  The evidence available to the 
Board indicated that MMMFs were facing severe difficulty in obtaining funding to meet 
current cash demands.  Available evidence also indicated that conditions in the 
secondary market for ABCP were illiquid, which made it difficult for MMMFs, among 
others, to obtain adequate credit accommodations from other banking sources to fund 
ABCP assets. 

It was noted in the ensuing discussion that the proposed facility was expected to 

assist MMMFs that hold ABCP to meet demands for redemptions by investors and to 
foster liquidity in the ABCP market.  Board members' discussion of the proposal 
included consideration of the current disruption in the market for ABCP and the potential 
risk of loss and operational issues for the Federal Reserve under the proposal. 

Given the unusual and exigent circumstances, the Board authorized the Federal 

Reserve Bank of Boston under sections 13(3) and 10B of the Federal Reserve Act to 
extend credit on a nonrecourse basis to depository institutions and bank holding 
companies secured by U.S. dollar-denominated ABCP that (1) the depository institution 
or bank holding company purchased at amortized cost from a registered investment 
company that holds itself out as a money market mutual fund under SEC Rule 2a-7, 
issued under the Investment Company Act of 1940; (2) meets the definition of First Tier 
Securities under Rule 2a-7; and (3) is issued by a United States issuer.  The extension 
of credit may be made if the Boston Reserve Bank obtains evidence that the borrower is 
unable to secure adequate credit accommodations from other banking institutions, and 
the term of the extension of credit should not exceed the maturity of the ABCP that is 
securing the extension of credit.  No new extensions of credit may be made after 
January 30, 2009.  The extension of credit should be secured to the satisfaction of the 
Boston Reserve Bank and subject to such conditions as the Reserve Bank deems 
appropriate, including conditions regarding safekeeping of the ABCP.  The Board also 
approved the recommendation of the Boston Reserve Bank that the credit be extended 
at the primary credit rate.  (NOTE:  This facility was established as the Asset-Backed 

Page  5 

Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, or AMLF.  The Board 
extended its authorization for the AMLF until April 30, 2009, by notation voting on 
November 24, 2008.  As required by section 129 of the Emergency Economic 
Stabilization Act of 2008, the Board approved a report of the facility's establishment to 
the Congress on November 3 and approved a periodic report that updated this report by 
notation voting on December 29, 2008.  At its meeting on January 27, 2009, the Board 
extended its authorization for the AMLF until October 30, 2009.) 

Board members also discussed with the staff two complementary exemptions, 
both temporary and subject to certain conditions, from regulatory requirements under 
(1) sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the Board's Regulation W 
(Transactions Between Member Banks and Their Affiliates) and (2) the Board's 
leverage and risk-based capital guidelines.  The exemptions were intended to facilitate 
participation by banking organizations in the proposed facility as intermediaries between 
the Federal Reserve and MMMFs and would expire on January 30, 2009, unless 
extended by the Board.  The Board approved granting the proposed exemptions by 
interim final rules with requests for public comments, in consultation with the other 
federal banking supervisors.  The Board also delegated the authority to the director of 
the Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation and the General Counsel, in 
consultation with the chairman of the Committee on Supervisory and Regulatory Affairs, 
to grant exemptions under sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the 
Board's Regulation W during the next two weeks for ABCP transactions with MMMF 
affiliates that did not use the proposed facility.  (NOTE:  By notation voting on 
January 27, 2009, the Board approved final rules to conform with the extension of the 
AMLF.) 

Participating in these determinations and voting for these actions:
 Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and
 Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background:	 
Implementation:	  Resolution, press releases, and Federal Register documents 

Proposed resolution, September 19, 2008. 

(Docket Nos. R-1331 and R-1332), September 19, 2008. 

GOLDMAN SACHS, MORGAN STANLEY, and MERRILL LYNCH -- Applications by 
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley to become bank holding companies and 
authorizations to increase liquidity support for certain securities subsidiaries of 
Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, and Merrill Lynch. 

Page  6 

Discussed.
 
Approved.
 
Issuance of orders authorized.
 
September 21, 2008.
 

Today, the Board considered applications by the following organizations to 

become bank holding companies:  (1) The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and Goldman 
Sachs Bank USA Holdings LLC (together, Goldman Sachs), both in New York, New 
York, on the conversion of Goldman Sachs Bank USA, Salt Lake City, Utah, from an 
industrial loan company to a state-chartered bank; and (2) Morgan Stanley, Morgan 
Stanley Capital Management LLC, and Morgan Stanley Domestic Holdings, Inc. 
(together, Morgan Stanley), all in New York, New York, on the conversion of Morgan 
Stanley Bank, also in Salt Lake City, from an industrial loan company to a bank. 

In the ensuing discussion, it was noted that under the Bank Holding Company 

Act, newly formed bank holding companies had two years to divest impermissible 
nonbanking activities, with the possibility of three one-year extensions of the divestiture 
period.  It was also expected that the extent of the required divestitures for these 
companies would depend in large measure on whether they elected to become financial 
holding companies after becoming bank holding companies.  Thereupon, the Board 
approved the applications of Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley to become bank 
holding companies and authorized issuing orders, with the concurrence of the chairman 
of the Committee on Supervisory and Regulatory Affairs, to reflect its actions. 

Board members also discussed the need for additional liquidity support for 

Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, during their transition to managing their funding 
within the structure of a bank holding company, and to Merrill Lynch & Company, Inc., 
(Merrill Lynch), also in New York.  It was noted that the Board retained the authority to 
revoke such support, if warranted by market conditions. 

Given the unusual and exigent circumstances, the Board authorized the Federal 

Reserve Bank of New York under section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act to extend 
credit, as described below, (1) to the U.K. broker-dealer subsidiaries of Goldman Sachs, 
Morgan Stanley, and Merrill Lynch and (2) to the primary-dealer subsidiaries of 
Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, and Merrill Lynch, if the New York Reserve Bank 
obtains evidence that the borrower is unable to secure adequate credit 
accommodations from other banking institutions.  Credit extensions under these 
authorizations must be fully secured to the satisfaction of the New York Reserve Bank 
and must be secured by the types of collateral accepted (1) at the Primary Dealer Credit 
Facility (PDCF) by the Reserve Bank, for the U.K broker-dealer subsidiaries, and (2) at 
the primary credit facility for depository institutions or at the PDCF by the Reserve Bank, 
for the primary-dealer subsidiaries.  The New York Reserve Bank may also impose 

Page  7 

such additional conditions on any extension of credit as the Reserve Bank deems 
appropriate.  In addition, the Board approved the recommendation of the New York 
Reserve Bank that credit to Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, and Merrill Lynch be 
extended at the primary credit rate.  (NOTE:  As required by section 129 of the 
Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Board approved a report of this 
action to the Congress by notation voting on November 3 and approved a periodic 
report to the Congress updating this action by notation voting on December 29, 2008.) 

Participating in these determinations and voting for these actions:
 Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 
Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background:	 
Implementation:	  Resolutions and orders, September 21; press releases, 

Proposed resolutions, September 21, 2008. 

September 21 and 22; and letter from Mr. Frierson to 
Morgan Stanley, September 22, 2008. 

WACHOVIA CORPORATION -- Proposal to invoke the systemic-risk exception in a 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation resolution of Wachovia's financial 
difficulties. 

Discussed. 
Approved. 
September 28, 2008. 

Today, the Board considered whether the financial difficulties of Wachovia 

Corporation (Wachovia) and its subsidiary bank, Wachovia Bank, National Association 
(Wachovia Bank), both in Charlotte, North Carolina, warranted invoking the systemic-
risk exception to the least-cost-resolution requirements in the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Act.  Under the act, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) is generally 
required to resolve troubled insured depository institutions in a manner that is least 
costly to the deposit insurance fund. 

Evidence available to the Board indicated that Wachovia was a large and 

complex financial holding company, with total consolidated assets of approximately 
$812 billion, and the fourth-largest banking organization in the United States.  Available 
evidence also indicated that Wachovia was experiencing funding difficulties that were 
depleting its liquidity reserves.  It was noted that Wachovia faced the immediate 
prospect of being unable to fund its operations.  In light of the magnitude of Wachovia 
Bank's projected losses, it was expected that any action or assistance by the FDIC 

Page  8 

under the least-cost-resolution requirements would impose significant haircuts on the 
bank's subordinated debt holders and possibly its senior debt holders. 

Board members' discussion of invoking the systemic-risk exception included 

consideration of the likely effects that a least-cost resolution of Wachovia Bank by the 
FDIC would have on banking institutions and financial markets; the treatment of senior 
and subordinated debt holders in FDIC resolutions under the least-cost-resolution 
requirements and the systemic-risk exception; and the competing proposals by 
Citigroup Inc., New York, New York, and Wells Fargo & Company (Wells Fargo), San 
Francisco, California, to acquire Wachovia.  In light of all the facts and circumstances, 
including the condition of the financial markets and the state of the U.S. economy, the 
Board determined that the FDIC's compliance with the least-cost-resolution 
requirements with respect to Wachovia Bank and its insured depository institution 
affiliates would have serious adverse effects on economic conditions and financial 
stability.  The Board also determined that action or assistance by the FDIC as permitted 
under the systemic-risk exception would avoid or mitigate such adverse effects. 

It was understood that the Secretary of the Treasury would be advised of the 
Board's determinations, in accordance with the statutory procedures for invoking the 
systemic-risk exception.  (NOTE:  The Board approved Well Fargo's acquisition of 
Wachovia by notation voting on October 12 and issued a statement regarding its 
approval on October 21, 2008.) 

Participating in these determinations and voting for this action:

 Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and
 Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background:	 

Staff memorandum and overview of the senior and subordinated 
debt held by Wachovia and Wachovia Bank, September 28, 2008. 
Implementation:	  Letter from Chairman Bernanke to Mr. Paulson, Secretary of the 

Treasury, September 28, 2008. 

FINANCIAL MARKETS -- Discussion of (1) developments in the proposals by 
Citigroup Inc. and Wells Fargo & Company to acquire Wachovia Corporation and 
(2) options for reducing funding pressures in the commercial paper market. 

Discussed. 
October 3, 2008. 

Page  9 

Today, the Board discussed the following matters against the background of the 

significant level of fragility in financial markets:  (1) developments in the competing 
proposals by Citigroup Inc. (Citigroup), New York, New York, and Wells Fargo & 
Company (Wells Fargo), San Francisco, California, to acquire Wachovia Corporation 
(Wachovia), Charlotte, North Carolina; and (2) options for reducing funding pressures in 
the market for commercial paper. 

Proposals to acquire Wachovia.  The staff reviewed recent events in the efforts 
by Citigroup and Wells Fargo to acquire Wachovia and responded to Board members' 
requests for additional information about the terms of each proposal.  The Board's 
ensuing discussion included consideration of the capital positions of Citigroup and Wells 
Fargo, possible assistance from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) for 
Citigroup's proposal to acquire Wachovia's insured depository institutions only, the 
competitive position of the resulting entity under either proposal, and the overall 
systemic effects of the acquisition of Wachovia.  It was expected that one of the 
proposals would ultimately prevail and be presented to the Board for approval. 
(NOTE:  The Board approved Wells Fargo's acquisition of Wachovia on October 12 by 
notation voting and issued a statement regarding its approval on October 21, 2008.) 

Options for the commercial paper market.  The staff also presented two options 
for reducing funding pressures in the market for commercial paper.  The first proposal 
would establish a special discount window facility, the Term Funding Financing Facility 
(TFFF), to provide a financial incentive for depository institutions to purchase term 
commercial paper and banks' wholesale term certificates of deposit by offering credit on 
favorable terms through the TFFF.  The TFFF could be established either as a standing 
facility or an auction facility.  The second proposal would establish a conduit facility for 
commercial paper to provide term financing by buying and holding commercial paper 
issued by financial and nonfinancial companies until market conditions returned to 
normal. 

Board members' discussion of these options included consideration of whether 

pressures in the commercial paper market reflected the credit quality of commercial 
paper more than a lack of liquidity, a framework for further consultations with the FDIC 
on lowering the risk weighting of commercial paper purchased by banks, and the 
possible participation by the Department of the Treasury in the conduit facility for 
commercial paper.  Board members generally agreed that further consultations were 
needed with the appropriate agencies before going forward with either proposal. 
(NOTE:  The Board approved the Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF) in 
principle at its meeting on October 5, approved establishing the CPFF at its meeting on 
October 7, and agreed to announce additional details regarding the CPFF at its meeting 
on October 13, 2008.) 

Page 10 

Participating in this discussion:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn,

 and Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background:	 

Proposals for the Term Funding Financing Facility and a financial 
commercial paper conduit, October 3, 2008. 

Implementation:	  None. 

FINANCIAL MARKETS -- Proposal to provide liquidity directly to money market 
mutual funds through the Direct Money Market Mutual Fund Lending Facility. 

Discussed. 
Approved. 
October 3, 2008. 

The Board had approved a proposal to finance purchases by depository 

institutions and bank holding companies of high-quality asset-backed commercial paper 
from money market mutual funds (MMMFs) at its meeting on September 19, 2008 (the 
Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, or 
AMLF).  Today, staff presented the proposed Direct Money Market Mutual Fund 
Lending Facility (DMLF) as a means of providing direct support to qualifying MMMFs to 
meet redemption requests and to avoid distressed sales of high-credit-quality assets 
that were currently illiquid. 

Available evidence showed that MMMFs continued to face difficulty obtaining 

funding to meet cash demands and that the secondary market for high-quality 
commercial paper continued to be illiquid.  The DMLF was proposed as a way to 
provide liquidity to MMMFs by lending directly to them.  Board members' discussion of 
the DMLF included consideration of the positive and negative preliminary views of 
interested parties, the possible advantages of the DMLF over the existing AMLF, and 
the diversification of authority for implementing lending facilities among the Reserve 
Banks. 

Given the unusual and exigent circumstances, the Board authorized the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Atlanta and Chicago under section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act 
to extend credit to qualifying MMMFs if these Reserve Banks obtain evidence that the 
borrower is unable to secure adequate credit accommodations from other banking 
institutions.  The credit should be secured to the satisfaction of the Atlanta and Chicago 

Page 11 

Reserve Banks.  The Atlanta and Chicago Reserve Banks may, as they deem 
appropriate, impose terms and conditions on their extensions of credit, such as those 
described in the proposed terms and conditions for the lending facility.  It was expected 
that staff would consult with some market participants in constructing the operational 
details of the program.  The Board also approved the recommendation of the Reserve 
Banks that credit through the DMLF be extended at the primary credit rate. 
(NOTE:  After consulting with some market participants about operational details of the 
program, the Board determined to rescind its approval of the DMLF and consider 
alternative facilities.  The Board rescinded its approval of the DMLF on October 10, 
2008, by notation voting.) 

Participating in the discussion and determinations and voting for this action:

 Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and
 Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background:	 

Proposed Direct Money Market Mutual Fund Lending Facility, 
October 3, 2008. 

Implementation:	  None. 

REGULATION D -- Proposed interim final rule with request for public comment to 
implement payment of interest to depository institutions on reserves held at the 
Reserve Banks. 

Discussed. 
Approved. 
October 3, 2008. 

Today, the Board considered a proposed interim final rule with request for public 
comment to amend Regulation D (Reserve Requirements of Depository Institutions) to 
implement the Federal Reserve's authority to pay interest to depository institutions on 
required and excess reserve balances maintained at the Reserve Banks.  The Federal 
Reserve was initially granted this authority, beginning October 1, 2011, under the 
Financial Services Regulatory Relief Act of 2006.  The Emergency Economic 
Stabilization Act of 2008 accelerated the effective date of the authority to October 1, 
2008. 

Board members' discussion of the proposal included consideration of the interest 

rate to be paid on required reserve balances and excess balances maintained over a 

Page 12 

reserve-maintenance period and the treatment of interest paid on balances held by a 
pass-through correspondent for an eligible institution.  Board members supported the 
proposal and favored requesting public comment on several matters raised in the 
discussion, such as (1) alternatives to the method of determining the level of respondent 
excess balances in a correspondent's Reserve Bank account and (2) whether pass-
through correspondents should be required to pass interest earned on respondent 
balances back to the respondents and, if so, how to accomplish this pass-through 
payment. 

Thereupon, the discussion concluded and the Board approved publishing the 

proposed amendments to Regulation D on interest on reserves as an interim final rule 
with request for public comment.  (NOTE:  The Board approved publishing two interim 
final rules with requests for public comment to alter (1) the formula by which earnings on 
excess reserves of depository institutions are calculated, by notation voting on 
October 21, and (2) the formula by which earnings on required reserve balances and 
excess balances of depository institutions are calculated, by notation voting on 
November 4, 2008.  At its meeting on December 16, 2008, the Board approved an 
interim final rule to set the interest rates on required reserve balances and excess 
balances at 1/4 percent and to provide that interest rates paid on those balances may 
be rates determined by the Board from time to time rather than the rates in the 
regulation.) 

Participating in this discussion and voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, 

Vice Chairman Kohn, and Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and 
Duke. 

Background:	 

Staff proposal to implement interest on reserves, October 3, 2008. 
(NOTE:  Staff circulated a memorandum and draft Federal Register 
notice on October 5, 2008, for Board members' information.) 
Implementation:	  Press release and Federal Register document (Docket No. 

R-1334), October 6, 2008. 

FINANCIAL MARKETS -- Proposal to establish the Commercial Paper Funding 
Facility. 

Discussed.
 
Approved in principle.
 
October 5, 2008.
 

Page 13 

The Board had discussed the establishment of a conduit facility for purchasing 

commercial paper at its meeting on October 3, 2008.  Today, staff presented a proposal 
to establish the Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF) under section 13(3) of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 

The CPFF would be structured as a credit facility to a special-purpose vehicle 
(SPV) and serve as a funding backstop to facilitate the issuance of term commercial 
paper.  The SPV would purchase eligible commercial paper directly from eligible 
issuers, and the CPFF would extend credit to the SPV overnight at the target federal 
funds rate under terms and conditions, such as those described in the CPFF's proposed 
terms and conditions. 

Staff responded to requests from Board members for additional information about 

the SPV's capital structure, how the financial institutions eligible under the proposal 
compared with the institutions eligible under the new Troubled Asset Relief Program, 
the types of assets the SPV would accept, and the approximate size of the commercial 
paper market to be accommodated by the SPV.  At the conclusion of the discussion, the 
Board approved in principle the establishment of the CPFF, subject to further 
consultations with the Department of the Treasury.  (NOTE:  The Board approved the 
establishment of the CPFF at its meeting on October 7 and agreed to announce 
additional details regarding the CPFF at its meeting on October 13, 2008.) 

Participating in this discussion and voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, 

Vice Chairman Kohn, and Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and 
Duke. 

Background: 
Implementation:  None. 

Proposed CPFF terms and conditions, October 5, 2008. 

FINANCIAL MARKETS -- Discussion of (1) developments in the proposals by 
Citigroup Inc. and Wells Fargo & Company to acquire Wachovia Corporation and 
(2) market demand for the Term Auction Facility and the Direct Money Market 
Mutual Fund Lending Facility. 

Discussed. 
October 5, 2008. 

Today, the staff reviewed recent events regarding the following matters against 

the background of the significant level of fragility in financial markets:  (1) the competing 

Page 14 

proposals by Citigroup Inc. (Citigroup), New York, New York, and Wells Fargo & 
Company (Wells Fargo), San Francisco, California, to acquire Wachovia Corporation 
(Wachovia), Charlotte, North Carolina; and (2) market demand for loans from the Term 
Auction Facility (TAF) and the Direct Money Market Mutual Fund Lending Facility 
(DMLF). 

Proposals to acquire Wachovia.  The staff reviewed developments in the 

competing efforts by Citigroup and Wells Fargo to acquire Wachovia, including litigation 
recently filed by Citigroup to enjoin Wells Fargo's acquisition of Wachovia, and 
responded to Board members' requests for additional information about the litigation's 
likely effect on both proposals going forward.  The Board members' ensuing discussion 
included consideration of the effect on Wachovia's financial condition if uncertainty 
about its acquisition developed, the likelihood that any new offer by Citigroup to acquire 
Wachovia would continue to require assistance from the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and the near-term prospect of providing liquidity support to Wachovia.  At 
the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that the federal banking agencies 
would not express a preference for one acquisition proposal over the other and that staff 
would keep the Board informed of developments in this matter.  (NOTE:  The Board 
approved Wells Fargo's acquisition of Wachovia on October 12 by notation voting and 
issued a statement regarding its approval on October 21, 2008.) 

TAF and DMLF.  It was noted that the strained credit situation had increased 
demand for participation in the TAF and that the amount of the 28-day and 84-day 
auctions would each be doubled to $150 billion, effective with the 84-day auction on 
October 6, 2008.  Similarly, the amount of the two forward TAF auctions to be 
conducted in November 2008 to extend credit over year-end would each be increased 
to $150 billion.  With these increases, the potential amount of TAF credit outstanding 
over year-end 2008 could total $900 billion.  It was also noted that the DMLF, which the 
Board had approved at its meeting on October 3, 2008, was not favored by some 
interested parties.  Board members concurred in not implementing the facility at this 
time.  (NOTE:  The Board rescinded its approval of the DMLF on October 10, 2008, by 
notation voting.) 

Participating in this discussion and voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, 

Vice Chairman Kohn, and Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and 
Duke. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Press release, October 6, 2008.
 

None.
 

[***information deleted***] -- Request for an exemption under section 23A of the 
Federal Reserve Act and the Board's Regulation W. 

Page 15 

Discussed. 
Approved. 
October 5, 2008. 

Today, the Board considered a request for an exemption under section 23A of 

the Federal Reserve Act and the Board's Regulation W (Transactions Between Member 
Banks and Their Affiliates) to allow [***information deleted***] to purchase assets from 
affiliated money market mutual funds (MMMFs).  The proposed exemption would allow 
the affiliated MMMFs to meet redemption requests without having to sell assets in the 
currently fragile and illiquid money markets. 

Board members' discussion of the request included consideration of whether a 

blanket exemption should be provided to other banking institutions under similar 
circumstances.  Board members approved the bank's request, subject to certain 
conditions, and agreed to consider future requests for similar exemptions on a case-by­
case basis. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and

 Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background:	 
Implementation:	  Press release and letter from Mr. Frierson to the requester, 

None. 

October 6, 2008. 

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. -- Proposal to provide a securities 
lending facility. 

Discussed. 
Approved. 
October 6, 2008. 

At its meeting on September 16, 2008, the Board had approved an extension of 
credit by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to American International Group, Inc. 
(AIG), New York, New York, in an amount of up to $85 billion.  Today, the Board 

Page 16 

reviewed a request by the New York Reserve Bank for authorization to advance funds 
in an amount of up to $37.8 billion to AIG through a securities borrowing arrangement in 
exchange for high-quality collateral. 

The evidence available to the Board indicated that AIG had drawn approximately 

$62 billion from the original facility as of October 1.  In addition, available evidence 
indicated that drawdowns on the original facility were used, in part, to settle transactions 
with counterparties returning securities that they had borrowed in connection with the 
securities lending program operated by certain of AIG's insurance subsidiaries. 
Available evidence also indicated that AIG was likely to face additional, significant 
liquidity pressures due to the expected decision by other securities borrowing 
counterparties to not renew their securities borrowing positions with AIG. 

The securities lending facility was proposed to help stabilize AIG's liquidity 

situation and to help preserve the value of its subsidiaries by providing additional time to 
arrange for the orderly sale of certain operations. 

The Board members' discussion of the proposed securities lending facility 

included consideration of (1) the current state of the financial markets, (2) continuing 
systemic risk to financial markets and possible risk of loss to the Federal Reserve from 
the disorderly failure of AIG, (3) the likelihood that no incremental losses would be 
assumed by the Federal Reserve due to the high-quality collateral taken under the 
proposed facility and the additional protections provided by the terms of the proposed 
facility, and (4) the need to coordinate with the relevant state insurance authorities for 
AIG's insurance subsidiaries.  At the conclusion of their discussion, Board members 
generally supported the proposed securities lending facility as a temporary measure to 
address the significant liquidity pressures facing AIG from the securities lending 
program of its regulated insurance subsidiaries. 

Given the unusual and exigent circumstances, the Board authorized the New 

York Reserve Bank under section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act to advance funds to 
AIG in an amount of up to $37.8 billion, if the Reserve Bank obtains evidence that the 
borrower is unable to secure adequate credit accommodations from other banking 
institutions.  The advances should be secured by high-quality investment-grade debt 
obligations that are owned by the insurance subsidiaries of AIG and, thus, were not 
available as collateral under the current AIG credit facility; should be secured to the 
satisfaction of the New York Reserve Bank; and should not exceed the duration of the 
current AIG credit facility (September 16, 2010), subject to extension by the Reserve 
Bank after consultation with the Board.  The New York Reserve Bank may, as it deems 
appropriate, impose additional conditions on advancing funds to AIG under the 
securities lending facility.  The Board also approved the recommendation of the New 
York Reserve Bank that credit under the facility be extended at a rate of 100 basis 
points above the average overnight repo rate offered by dealers on the relevant 
collateral type, based on a daily survey of dealers conducted by the Reserve Bank's 

Page 17 

market desk.  (NOTE:  The Board authorized the restructuring, with the Department of 
the Treasury, of the government's financial support to AIG by notation voting on 
November 7, 2008.  As required by section 129 of the Emergency Economic 
Stabilization Act of 2008, the Board approved the following reports to the Congress by 
notation voting:  (1) a confidential report of the securities lending facility on October 14, 
(2) a report of the restructuring on November 17, and (3) a periodic report that updated 
these reports on December 29, 2008.) 

Participating in the discussion and determinations and voting for this action:

 Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 
Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Press release, October 8, 2008. 

Staff memorandum, October 6, 2008. 

MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. -- Proposal to acquire up to 
24.9 percent of the voting shares of Morgan Stanley as a noncontrolling 
equity investment. 

Discussed.
 
Approved.
 
Issuance of order authorized.
 
October 6, 2008.
 

Today, the Board reviewed a proposal by Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. 

(Mitsubishi), Tokyo, Japan, to acquire up to 24.9 percent of the voting shares 
of Morgan Stanley (Morgan), New York, New York, as a noncontrolling equity 
investment. The proposal presented the following matters for the Board's consideration: 
(1) whether the proposed business arrangements between Mitsubishi and Morgan 
would allow Mitsubishi to "control" Morgan for purposes of the Bank Holding Company 
Act (BHC Act) and (2) whether an emergency existed that required expeditious action 
on the application. 

Staff reviewed with the Board the types of proposed business arrangements 

between the companies, which included pooling their securities businesses in Japan, 
entering into exclusive strategies and arrangements under certain conditions, 
conducting arm's-length transactions, and making certain joint investments in third 
parties.  The Board members' discussion of the application included consideration of 
(1) the proposed business relationships, (2) the relative size of the two companies 
involved and Mitsubishi's inability, as a practical matter, to control a company as large 

Page 18 

as Morgan, (3) the unlikelihood that the proposal would result in an evasion of the BHC 
Act's cap on noncontrolling equity investments, and (4) the effect on Morgan if 
Mitsubishi were unable to make the proposed investment. 

At the conclusion of the discussion, the Board determined that Mitsubishi would 

not acquire control of, or have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over, Morgan 
or its subsidiary depository institutions under the proposal.  The Board also determined 
that, in light of unusual and exigent circumstances affecting the financial markets and all 
other facts and circumstances, emergency conditions existed that justified expeditious 
action on the application.  Under these circumstances and in accordance with the BHC 
Act, the Board shortened to ten days the notice and comment period provided to the 
primary regulators of the banks and savings associations involved in the proposal. 
Likewise, the Board waived public notice of the proposal and reduced the act's antitrust 
waiting period to five days.  Thereupon, the Board approved Mitsubishi's proposal to 
acquire up to 24.9 percent of the voting shares of Morgan as a noncontrolling equity 
investment. 

Participating in this discussion and voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, 

Vice Chairman Kohn, and Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and 
Duke. 

Background:	 
Implementation:	  Press release and order, October 6, and press release and 

None. 

statement regarding order, October 7, 2008. 

FINANCIAL MARKETS -- Proposal to establish the Commercial Paper Funding 
Facility. 

Discussed. 
Approved. 
October 7, 2008. 

The Board had discussed the establishment of a conduit facility that would buy 

and hold commercial paper until markets returned to normal at its meeting on 
October 3, and the Board approved in principle the establishment of the Commercial 
Paper Funding Facility (CPFF), subject to discussions with the Department of the 
Treasury (Treasury) on its possible participation in the proposal, at its meeting on 
October 5, 2008.  Today, staff presented a proposal to establish the CPFF, after further 
consultations with Treasury. 

Page 19 

The proposed CPFF would be structured as a credit facility to a special-purpose 
vehicle (SPV) that would serve as a funding backstop to facilitate the issuance of term 
commercial paper by eligible issuers.  The Federal Reserve would lend to the SPV 
through the CPFF in accordance with the facility's proposed terms and conditions. 

Evidence available to the Board indicated that the commercial paper market had 

been under considerable strain recently as money market mutual funds and other 
investors, themselves often facing liquidity pressures, had become increasingly 
reluctant to purchase commercial paper.  Available evidence also indicated that the 
volume of outstanding commercial paper had shrunk, interest rates paid on commercial 
paper had increased significantly, and an increasingly high percentage of outstanding 
commercial paper had to be refinanced daily. 

Staff responded to requests by Board members for additional information about 
several proposed terms and conditions for the facility.  The ensuing discussion of the 
Board members included consideration of whether the facility was likely to encourage 
investors to resume term lending in the commercial paper market by rolling over an 
eligible issuer's maturing commercial paper, thereby eliminating much of the risk of 
issuer default.  Increased investor demand should, in turn, lower the currently elevated 
interest rates paid to investors and foster the issuance of longer-term commercial paper. 
Board members also considered the protections afforded to the Federal Reserve under 
the facility and the liquidity provided by the CPFF to issuers of new commercial paper 
as a complement to the liquidity provided to purchasers of outstanding asset-backed 
commercial paper by an existing facility (the Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money 
Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, or AMLF, approved by the Board at its meeting on 
September 19, 2008). 

Given the unusual and exigent circumstances, the Board authorized the Federal 

Reserve Bank of New York under section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act to extend 
credit to the SPV for the direct purchase of eligible commercial paper from eligible U.S. 
issuers if the Reserve Bank obtains evidence that the borrower is unable to secure 
adequate credit accommodations from other banking institutions.  The credit should be 
on an overnight basis with recourse to the SPV, should be secured by all the assets of 
the SPV, and should be secured to the satisfaction of the New York Reserve Bank.  The 
New York Reserve Bank may, as it deems appropriate, impose conditions on its 
extension of credit to the SPV, such as those described in the proposed terms and 
conditions for the facility.  The Board also approved the recommendation of the New 
York Reserve Bank that credit under the facility be extended at the target federal funds 
rate.  (NOTE:  The Board agreed at its meeting on October 13, 2008, to announce 
additional details about the CPFF's implementation.) 

Page 20 

Participating in these determinations and voting for this action:

 Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 
Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background:	 

Proposed CPFF terms and conditions and press release, October 7, 
2008. 

Implementation:	  Press release with attached CPFF terms and conditions, October 7, 

2008. 

FINANCIAL MARKETS -- Proposal to invoke the systemic-risk exception to 
provide certain Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation guarantees across the 
banking system. 

Discussed. 
Approved. 
October 13, 2008. 

Today, staff presented for Board consideration a proposal to broadly invoke the 
systemic-risk exception to the least-cost-resolution requirements in the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act.  The exception would allow the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
(FDIC) to provide certain guarantees across the banking system to assist in restoring 
stability and confidence in financial markets, which continued to experience a significant 
level of fragility.  Under the act, the FDIC is generally required to resolve troubled 
insured depository institutions in a manner that is least costly to the deposit insurance 
fund. 

The proposal would apply the systemic-risk exception in order to temporarily 

provide certain guarantees, without complying with the act's least-cost-resolution 
requirements, for (1) new senior unsecured debt issued by insured depository 
institutions and eligible bank and thrift holding companies and (2) non-interest-bearing 
transaction deposit accounts at insured depository institutions. 

Board members' discussion of the proposal included consideration of how the 
scope of the guarantees differed from recently announced European programs, the 
benefits of applying the guarantees to eligible banking and thrift institutions that were 
not currently in financial difficulty, and the proposal's likely effect of restoring confidence 
in the U.S. banking system.  Board members generally agreed that recent events had 
adversely affected financial stability and investor confidence in the U.S. banking system 
and in the financial markets more broadly, and they supported the application of the 
systemic-risk exception to the FDIC's proposed sector-wide guarantees. 

Page 21 

In light of all the facts and circumstances, including the condition of the financial 

markets and the state of the U.S. economy, the Board determined that the FDIC's 
compliance with the least-cost-resolution requirements of the act in connection with 
providing assistance to insured depository institutions would have serious adverse 
effects on economic conditions and financial stability.  The Board also determined that 
the action or assistance to be provided by the FDIC under the proposed guarantee 
program and permitted under the systemic-risk exception would avoid or mitigate such 
adverse effects.  It was understood that the Secretary of the Treasury would be advised 
of the Board's determinations, in accordance with the statutory procedures for invoking 
the systemic-risk exception. 

Participating in these determinations and voting for this action: 

Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 
Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background:	 

Staff memorandum, October 13, and legal analysis, October 12, 
2008. 

Implementation:	  Letter from Chairman Bernanke to Mr. Paulson, Secretary of the 

Treasury, and joint statement by the Board, Department of the 
Treasury, and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, October 14, 
2008. 

FINANCIAL MARKETS -- Proposal to establish the Money Market Investor Funding 
Facility. 

Discussed. 
Approved. 
October 13, 2008. 

Today, the Board considered a proposal to help restore liquidity to the money 

markets by establishing the Money Market Investor Funding Facility (MMIFF) as a new 
credit facility provided by the Federal Reserve to a series of special-purpose vehicles 
created by the private sector (PSPVs).  Each vehicle would issue asset-backed 
commercial paper to finance the purchase of eligible money market instruments from 
eligible investors, with the MMIFF providing backup liquidity support to the PSPVs. 

Board members' discussion of the MMIFF included consideration of the 

advantages of a liquidity initiative in which the private sector assumed the predominant 
role, the Federal Reserve's well-secured credit position in the facility, and market 

Page 22 

conditions that warranted going forward with the proposal, albeit with some open 
operational issues.  In addition, more market participants might take part in an initiative 
led by the private sector, with backup liquidity support from the Federal Reserve. 

Given the unusual and exigent circumstances, the Board authorized the Federal 

Reserve Bank of New York under section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act to extend 
credit to each PSPV if the New York Reserve Bank obtains evidence that the borrower 
is unable to secure adequate credit accommodations from other banking institutions. 
The credit should be on a senior basis with recourse to the PSPV, should be secured by 
all the assets of the PSPV, and should be secured to the satisfaction of the New York 
Reserve Bank.  The New York Reserve Bank may, as it deems appropriate, impose 
conditions on its extension of credit to a PSPV, such as those described in the proposed 
MMIFF terms and conditions.  The Board also approved the recommendation of the 
New York Reserve Bank that credit under the facility be extended at the primary credit 
rate.  (NOTE:  The Board approved substantive modifications to the terms and 
conditions of the MMIFF and reauthorized the facility under section 13(3) of the Federal 
Reserve Act at its meeting on October 21, 2008.) 

Participating in these determinations and voting for this action:

 Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and
 Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background:	 

Proposed MMIFF terms and conditions and PSPV overview, 
October 13, 2008. 

Implementation:	  None. 

FINANCIAL MARKETS -- Proposal to implement the Commercial Paper Funding 
Facility. 

Discussed. 
October 13, 2008. 

The Board had approved the establishment of the Commercial Paper Funding 

Facility (CPFF) at its meeting on October 7, 2008, as a credit facility to a special-
purpose vehicle that would serve as a funding backstop to facilitate the issuance of term 
commercial paper by eligible issuers.  Today, the staff reviewed with the Board 
additional details about the terms and conditions of the CPFF that reflected 
consultations with commercial paper issuers and dealers.  Those details, which were 

Page 23 

presented in a new term sheet, included (1) adjustments to the facility's limits on the 
amount of a single issuer's commercial paper that could be owned by the special-
purpose vehicle at any one time and (2) a reservation of the Federal Reserve's right to 
review and adjust the facility's terms and conditions, including its pricing and eligibility 
requirements.  (NOTE:  The Board had discussed a conduit facility for commercial 
paper at its meeting on October 3 and approved in principle the CPFF at its meeting on 
October 5, 2008.) 

During the ensuing discussion, it was noted that the CPFF could begin funding 
purchases of commercial paper on October 27, 2008, and that such an announcement 
was expected to have a positive effect on investors.  Thereupon, Board members 
concurred in announcing the additional details regarding the CPFF and implementing 
the facility on October 27, 2008.  (NOTE:  As required by section 129 of the Emergency 
Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Board approved a report of the facility's 
establishment to the Congress on October 14 and approved a periodic report that 
updated this report by notation voting on December 29, 2008.  The Board approved 
setting the interest rate on discount window loans to the CPFF's special-purpose vehicle 
at the maximum rate within the target range for the federal funds rate, if the target 
federal funds rate is a range of rates rather than a specific rate, by notation voting on 
December 25, 2008.  At its meeting on January 27, 2009, the Board extended its 
authorization for the CPFF until October 30, 2009.) 

Participating in this discussion:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 

Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background:	 
Implementation:	  Press release with attached terms and conditions and frequently 

Proposed CPFF terms and conditions, October 13, 2008. 

asked questions, October 14, 2008. 

RISK-BASED CAPITAL GUIDELINES -- Publication of an interim final rule for 
public comment to facilitate the Department of the Treasury's capital purchase 
program by permitting stock issued to the program to qualify as tier 1 capital. 

Discussed. 
Approved. 
October 13, 2008. 

Today, the Board considered an interim final rule with a request for public 
comment that would facilitate implementation of the Department of the Treasury's 

Page 24 

proposed capital purchase program by allowing bank holding companies to include in 
their tier 1 capital, without restriction, senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the 
program.  (NOTE:  The capital purchase program had been proposed under authority 
granted by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and was announced in a 
joint statement by the Board, Department of the Treasury, and Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on October 14, 2008.) 

Board members' discussion of the interim final rule included consideration of the 
step-up in the rate of dividends for stock issued to the capital purchase program under 
certain conditions and the exclusion of instruments with this feature from tier 1 capital 
under current risk-based capital guidelines.  Board members also considered the 
adverse effect on participating institutions if stock issued to the program did not qualify 
as tier 1 capital and the preference of the other federal bank supervisors to expressly 
limit the tier 1 capital treatment for this type of stock to the capital purchase program. 
Board members agreed that facilitating the timely implementation of the capital 
purchase program was an important aspect of the efforts to address current conditions 
in financial markets.  It was also understood that staff would consult with the other 
federal supervisory banking and thrift agencies on publishing a complementary 
interagency rule for insured depository institution subsidiaries of holding companies. 

At the conclusion of the discussion, the Board approved publication of the 
proposed interim final rule with a request for public comment and delegated to the 
chairman of the Committee on Supervisory and Regulatory Affairs the authority to 
approve the final text of the rule and any complementary interagency interim rule that 
might be proposed. 

Participating in this discussion and voting for these actions:

 Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 
Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background:	 
Implementation:	  Press release and Federal Register document (Docket No. 

None. 

R-1336), October 16, 2008. 

FINANCIAL MARKETS -- Proposal to substantively modify the Money Market 
Investor Funding Facility. 

Discussed. 
Approved. 
October 21, 2008. 

Page 25 

The Board had approved the establishment of the Money Market Investor 
Funding Facility (MMIFF) at its meeting on October 13, 2008, to support a private-
sector initiative to provide liquidity to eligible money market investors.  The MMIFF 
was structured as a Federal Reserve credit facility to a series of special-purpose 
vehicles established by the private sector (PSPVs).  Today, staff presented a proposal 
to substantively modify the form of financing provided to the PSPVs through the MMIFF 
and to make other substantive modifications, in light of further consultations with 
interested parties. 

As originally structured, the PSPVs would issue senior and subordinated asset-
backed commercial paper (ABCP), and the MMIFF would provide liquidity support, but 
not credit support, to the senior ABCP.  Under the new proposal, each PSPV would only 
issue subordinated ABCP, and the MMIFF would replace the funding provided by senior 
ABCP with direct senior secured loans to the PSPVs.  Other substantive modifications 
included (1) subordinating any interest payments due to the Federal Reserve that are 
related to an increase in the current primary credit rate (1.75 percent) of more than 
50 basis points (or above 2.25 percent) to the principal and interest payments on the 
ABCP and (2) setting a cap on investor returns on the ABCP that result from any excess 
spread remaining in a PSPV after completion of the wind-down process. 

Evidence available to the Board showed that short-term debt markets continued 
to be under considerable strain, as money market mutual funds and other investors had 
become increasingly unable to sell assets to satisfy redemption requests and meet their 
portfolio-rebalancing needs.  By facilitating the sales of money market instruments in the 
secondary market, the proposed MMIFF was expected to improve the liquidity position 
of money market investors and thereby increase their ability to meet further redemption 
requests and their willingness to invest in money market instruments. 

Staff responded to requests from Board members for additional information on 
changing the MMIFF from a backup liquidity facility to a direct lending facility and on 
other proposed modifications.  Board members also considered and discussed the 
continued availability of the Commercial Paper Funding Facility (approved at the 
Board's meeting on October 7, 2008) for commercial paper issuers. 

Given the unusual and exigent circumstances, the Board authorized the Federal 

Reserve Bank of New York under section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act to extend 
credit to each PSPV if the New York Reserve Bank obtains evidence that the borrower 
is unable to secure adequate credit accommodations from other banking institutions. 
The credit should be extended overnight and on a senior basis with recourse to the 
PSPV, should be secured by all the assets of the PSPV, and should be secured to the 
satisfaction of the New York Reserve Bank.  The New York Reserve Bank may, as it 
deems appropriate, impose conditions on its extension of credit to a PSPV, such as 

Page 26 

those described in the proposed MMIFF terms and conditions.  The Board also 
approved the recommendation of the New York Reserve Bank that credit under the 
facility be extended at the primary credit rate.  (NOTE:  As required by section 129 of 
the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Board approved a report of this 
action to the Congress by notation voting on October 28 and approved a periodic report 
that updated this report by notation voting on December 29, 2008.  The Board 
expanded the set of eligible investors that may participate in the MMIFF and adjusted 
several of the economic parameters of the facility by notation voting on December 24, 
2008.  At its meeting on January 27, 2009, the Board extended its authorization for the 
MMIFF until October 30, 2009.) 

Participating in these determinations and voting for this action:

 Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 
Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background:	 

Proposed MMIFF terms and conditions, October 20, and PSPV 
overview and press release, October 21, 2008. 

Implementation:	  Press release with attached terms and conditions and frequently 

asked questions, October 21, 2008. 

FINANCIAL MARKETS -- Proposed agreement by the U.S. government to provide 
capital, guarantees, and residual financing to Citigroup Inc. 

Discussed. 
Approved. 
November 23, 2008. 

Today, the Board considered an agreement by the U.S. government with 

Citigroup Inc. (Citigroup), New York, New York, one of the largest financial institutions in 
the United States and a major provider of credit and other services domestically and 
abroad, against the current background of significant fragility in financial markets. 
Available evidence suggested that investors were becoming increasingly concerned 
about the company's prospects, which would threaten Citigroup's ability to continue to 
obtain funding.  The Department of the Treasury (Treasury), Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC), and Federal Reserve proposed a package of coordinated actions 
intended to help restore confidence in Citigroup, help it and the financial system 
weather the ongoing disruptions in financial markets, and promote financial stability. 

Page 27 

The assistance to be provided to Citigroup under the proposed agreement has 

three major components.  Treasury would invest $20 billion in Citigroup from the 
Troubled Asset Relief Program in exchange for preferred stock that would pay an 
8 percent dividend.  Treasury and the FDIC would share with Citigroup losses on a 
designated pool of Citigroup assets of up to $306 billion in loans and securities that are 
backed by residential and commercial real estate and certain other assets.  Finally, the 
Federal Reserve would provide residual financing, if necessary, to Citigroup for the 
value of assets remaining in the pool after certain loss-sharing arrangements among 
Citigroup, Treasury, and the FDIC are exhausted. 

The proposed FDIC protection would require invoking the systemic-risk exception 

to the least-cost-resolution requirements in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, which 
generally require the FDIC to resolve a troubled insured depository institution in a 
manner that is least costly to the deposit insurance fund.  In light of all the facts and 
circumstances, including the condition of the financial markets, the state of the U.S. 
economy, and the size, importance, and interconnectedness of Citigroup, the Board 
determined that the FDIC's compliance with the least-cost-resolution requirements of 
the act in connection with providing the proposed assistance to Citibank, N.A. and its 
insured depository institution affiliates would have serious adverse effects on economic 
conditions and financial stability.  The Board also determined that participation by the 
FDIC in the proposed program was the type of action and assistance the systemic-risk 
exception authorized, would assist in stabilizing Citigroup and its insured depository 
institution subsidiaries, and would avoid or mitigate the potential for serious adverse 
effects on economic conditions and financial stability.  It was understood that the 
Secretary of the Treasury would be advised of the Board's determination, in accordance 
with the statutory procedures for invoking the systemic-risk exception.  (NOTE:  A final 
memorandum summarizing the considerations for invoking the systemic-risk exception 
for Citibank, N.A. was distributed to the Board on December 3, 2008.) 

The proposed residual Federal Reserve financing would require the Board's 

authorization under section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act.  Given the unusual and 
exigent circumstances, and in accordance with the proposed agreement with Citigroup, 
the Board authorized the Federal Reserve Bank of New York under section 13(3), if 
necessary, to provide Citigroup with financing up to the value of the assets remaining in 
the designated pool after the loss-sharing arrangements with Citigroup, Treasury, and 
the FDIC are exhausted if the New York Reserve Bank obtains evidence that the 
borrower is unable to secure adequate credit accommodations from other banking 
institutions.  Credit extensions must be fully secured to the satisfaction of the New York 
Reserve Bank by the assets in the designated pool on a nonrecourse basis, except with 
respect to interest payments.  The New York Reserve Bank may impose additional 
conditions on any extension of credit under this authorization as the Reserve Bank 
deems appropriate.  The Board also approved the recommendation of the New York 
Reserve Bank that credit to Citigroup under the proposed agreement be extended at a 
floating rate equal to the three-month overnight index swap rate plus 300 basis points. 

Page 28 

(NOTE:  As required by section 129 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 
2008, the Board approved a report of this action to the Congress by notation voting on 
December 1 and approved a periodic report that updated this report by notation voting 
on December 29, 2008.) 

Participating in these determinations and voting for these actions:
 Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and
 Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

None. 

Background:	 
Implementation:	  Interagency press release with attached term sheet, November 23, 
and letter from Chairman Bernanke to Mr. Paulson, Secretary of the 
Treasury, December 2, 2008. 

FINANCIAL MARKETS -- Proposal to establish the Term Asset-Backed Securities 
Loan Facility. 

Discussed. 
November 23, 2008. 

Today, the Board considered the establishment of the Term Asset-Backed 

Securities Loan Facility (TALF).  The facility would help financial markets accommodate 
the credit needs of consumers and small businesses by facilitating the issuance of 
asset-backed securities (ABS) and by improving the market conditions for ABS more 
generally.  Historically, the ABS markets had funded a substantial portion of consumer 
credit loans and small business loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration, 
and available evidence indicated a disruption in these markets.  The continued 
disruption of ABS markets could significantly limit the availability of credit to households 
and small businesses and, when combined with the ongoing stress in other parts of the 
credit markets, could present significant risks to financial stability and economic 
conditions in the United States. 

The proposed facility would extend up to $200 billion in loans (each with a one-

year term), would be fully secured by the market value of high-quality ABS (subject to a 
collateral haircut), and would be on a nonrecourse basis to the borrower.  The 
Department of the Treasury (Treasury) would also provide $20 billion of credit protection 
to the Federal Reserve in connection with the TALF under the Troubled Asset Relief 
Program.  Board members' discussion of the proposal included consideration of eligible 
collateral under the facility, the auction process for awarding the loans, and the 
application of Treasury's executive-compensation limitations to the borrowers. 

Page 29 

At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that a final proposal would 
be presented to the Board at a later date for approval under section 13(3) of the Federal 
Reserve Act.  (NOTE:  The Board authorized the TALF under section 13(3) of the 
Federal Reserve Act by notation voting on November 24 and announced the TALF in a 
press release with attached terms and conditions on November 25, 2008.  As required 
by section 129 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Board 
approved a report of this action by notation voting on December 2 and approved a 
periodic report that updated this report by notation voting on December 29, 2008.  On 
December 19, 2008, the Board approved revisions to the terms and conditions for the 
TALF by notation voting and announced the revisions in a press release.  On 
February 6, 2009, the Board approved further revisions to the TALF by notation voting 
and announced those revisions in a press release.) 

Participating in this discussion:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and

 Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background:	 

Proposal for the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility and 
draft press release, November 23, 2008. 

Implementation:	  None. 

NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION -- Request for concurrence by the 
Board in NCUA's determination to lend from its Central Liquidity Facility for 
purposes other than liquidity needs. 

Discussed. 
Approved. 
November 23, 2008. 

Today, the Board considered a request from the National Credit Union 

Administration (NCUA) to concur in its determination to lend to federally insured, 
natural-person credit unions for purposes other than liquidity needs.  Relevant 
documentation showed that extensions of credit from the NCUA's Central Liquidity 
Facility (CLF) were normally limited to meeting a member's liquidity needs, unless the 
NCUA determined, with the concurrence of the Board and Department of the Treasury, 
that CLF lending for purposes other than liquidity needs was in the national economic 
interest. 

During the ensuing discussion, staff noted that the proposal would permit certain 

credits extended by corporate credit unions to natural-person credit unions to be 

Page 30 

transferred to the CLF, which would likely ease the increasing liquidity pressures on 
corporate credit unions.  In light of the current strains in financial markets, it was 
generally agreed that the failure of a large corporate credit union caused by a shortfall in 
liquidity could have serious adverse implications for the U.S. financial system and the 
economy. 

Thereupon, Board members concurred in NCUA's determination that extensions 
of credit to members of the CLF for purposes other than liquidity needs would be in the 
national economic interest. 

Participating in this determination and voting for this action:

 Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and
 Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background:	 

Staff memorandum with attached request and proposed response, 
November 23, 2008. 

Implementation:	  Letter from Chairman Bernanke to Mr. Fryzel, chairman of the 

National Credit Union Administration, November 24, 2008. 

CITIGROUP INC. -- Proposed authorization to provide liquidity support to 
Citigroup's London-based broker-dealer subsidiary. 

Discussed. 
Approved. 
November 23, 2008. 

At its meeting on September 21, 2008, the Board had authorized the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York under section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act to extend 
credit to the U.K. broker-dealer subsidiaries of Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, and 
Merrill Lynch, all in New York, New York, against collateral acceptable at the Primary 
Dealer Credit Facility (PDCF).  Today, the Board decided to authorize the New York 
Reserve Bank to extend credit to the London-based broker-dealer subsidiary of 
Citigroup Inc. (Citigroup), also in New York, under the same terms and conditions 
applicable to those organizations. 

Given the unusual and exigent circumstances, the Board authorized the New 

York Reserve Bank under section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act to extend credit to 
Citigroup's London-based broker-dealer subsidiary if the New York Reserve Bank 
obtains evidence that the borrower is unable to secure adequate credit 

Page 31 

accommodations from other banking institutions.  Credit extensions under the facility 
must be fully secured to the satisfaction of the New York Reserve Bank and must be 
secured by the types of collateral accepted at the PDCF by the Reserve Bank.  The 
New York Reserve Bank may impose such additional conditions on any extension of 
credit under the facility as the Reserve Bank deems appropriate.  The Board also 
approved the recommendation of the New York Reserve Bank that credit to Citigroup 
under the facility be extended at the primary credit rate.  (NOTE:  As required by 
section 129 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Board approved 
a periodic report that included this action to the Congress by notation voting on 
December 29, 2008.) 

Participating in this determination and voting for this action:

 Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 
Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background: 
None. 
Implementation:  None. 

REGULATION D -- Interest rates on required reserve balances and excess 
balances. 

Approved. 
December 16, 2008. 

At its meeting on October 3, 2008, the Board had approved paying interest on 
required reserve balances and excess balances held at Federal Reserve Banks.  On 
two occasions, the Board had modified the formulas used to calculate the interest rates 
paid.  All the formulas were based on the target federal funds rate.  Earlier today, the 
Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) elected not to set a target federal funds rate 
but rather to set a target range of 0 to 1/4 percent. 

The Board approved an interim final rule today that amended Regulation D 

(Reserve Requirements of Depository Institutions) by establishing a new interest rate of 
1/4 percent on required reserve balances and excess balances. In light of current 
economic conditions, any delay in implementing the rule would be contrary to the public 
interest, and the new rate is effective for the reserve maintenance periods beginning 
December 18, 2008.  The Board also amended Regulation D to provide that the interest 
rates to be paid on required reserve balances and excess balances may be rates 
determined by the Board from time to time rather than the rates in the regulation. 

Page 32 

Participating in these determinations and voting for this action:

 Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 
Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Duke. 

Background:	 
Implementation:	  Press release, December 16, and Federal Register document 

Proposed resolution, December 16, 2008. 

(Docket No. R-1334), December 18, 2008. 

Page 33 

