DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE  RATES -  Establishment  without  change by  twelve 
Reserve  Banks  of the existing  primary  credit  rate;  renewal  by those  Banks  of  the 
formulas  for  calculating  the secondary  and seasonal  credit  rates  and  of  the 
auction  procedure for  determining  the rate for  the Term Auction  Facility;  and 
renewal  by the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York  of the formulas  for  calculating 
the rates for  the Term Asset-Backed  Securities  Loan  Facility. 

Approved. 
November  23, 2009. 

The Board approved the establishment without change of the rate for discounts 
and advances under the primary credit program  (1/2 percent) by the Federal  Reserve 
Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco on 
November 12, 2009, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York,  Philadelphia, 
Richmond, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City on November  19.  The Board also 
approved renewal by those Banks, on the dates indicated above, of the formulas for 
calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under the secondary and 
seasonal credit programs and of the auction procedure for determining the rate for the 
Term Auction Facility.  In addition, the Board approved renewal by the Federal  Reserve 
Bank of New York on November 19 of the formulas for calculating the rates for the Term 
Asset-Backed Securities  Loan Facility. 

Voting for  this  action:  Chairman  Bernanke, Vice Chairman  Kohn, and 

Governors  Warsh, Duke, and  Tarullo. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve  Banks, and 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, November 20, 2009. 

transmission from Ms. Beattie to the Federal Reserve  Bank of 
New York, November 23, 2009. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE  RATES -  Establishment  without  change by  twelve 
Reserve  Banks  of the existing  primary  credit  rate. 

Existing  rate maintained. 
December  14, 2009. 

Page  1 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of New York,  Philadelphia,  Richmond, and Minneapolis had 
voted on December 3, 2009, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 
Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco had 
voted on December 10 to reestablish the existing rate for discounts and advances 
(1/2 percent) under the primary credit program  (primary credit rate). 

Federal Reserve Bank directors noted signs that a recovery  in economic activity 

was under way, but they cautioned that activity remained at a low level and that the 
pace of recovery was likely to be slow.  Financial market conditions had improved in 
recent months, and some institutions were able to take advantage of good lending 
opportunities.  However, other financial institutions continued to struggle with repairing 
their balance sheets.  Credit conditions  in certain market segments remained tight.  The 
housing sector showed signs of stabilization, albeit due in part to the special credit 
program for first-time homebuyers.  Some directors also viewed upward revisions to 
recent data on employee compensation and personal income as improving the outlook 
for growth in personal consumption.  Although a recent employment  report  indicated 
that the deterioration  in the labor market was abating, directors expressed continuing 
concerns about the high rate of unemployment.  Given the outlook for a slow recovery 
and persisting downside risks, and with inflation and inflation expectations at modest 
levels, directors agreed that the current accommodative stance of monetary  policy 
remained appropriate. 

Today,  Board members considered the primary credit rate and discussed, on a 

preliminary  basis, their individual assessments of the appropriate rate and its 
communication, which would be discussed at the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee this week.  No sentiment was expressed for changing the primary credit rate 
before the Committee's meeting, and the existing rate was maintained. 

Participating  in this  determination:  Chairman  Bernanke, Vice Chairman  Kohn, 

and  Governors  Duke and Tarullo. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve  Banks, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, December 11, 2009. 

December  14, 2009. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE  RATES -  Renewal  by twelve  Reserve  Banks  of  the 
formulas  for  calculating  the secondary  and seasonal  credit  rates;  renewal  by 
those  Banks  of the auction  procedure for  determining  the rate for  the Term 
Auction  Facility;  and  renewal  by the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York  of  the 
formulas  for  calculating  the rates for  the Term Asset-Backed  Securities  Loan 
Facility. 

Page  2 

Approved. 
December  14, 2009. 

The Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, 

Philadelphia,  Richmond, and Minneapolis on December 3, 2009, and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, 
and San Francisco on December 20 of the formulas for calculating the rates applicable 
to discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit programs and of 
the auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction Facility.  In addition, 
the Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on December 3 
of the formulas for calculating the rates for the Term Asset-Backed Securities  Loan 
Facility. 

Voting for  this  action:  Chairman  Bernanke, Vice Chairman  Kohn, and 

Governors  Duke and Tarullo. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve  Banks, and 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, December 11, 2009. 

transmission from Ms. Beattie to the Federal Reserve  Bank of 
New York, December  14, 2009. 

Page  3 

