DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by six Reserve Banks to maintain 
the existing primary credit rate and requests by six Reserve Banks to increase the 
rate; requests to renew the secondary and seasonal credit formulas. 

Existing rate and formulas approved. 
June 4, 2018. 

Today, Board members discussed economic and financial developments and 

issues related to possible policy actions.  In connection with this discussion, Board 
members considered discounts and advances under the primary credit program (the 
primary credit rate) and discussed, on a preliminary basis, their individual assessments 
of the appropriate rate and its communication, which would be discussed at the joint 
meeting of the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) next week. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta and San Francisco had voted on May 24, 2018, 
and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, 
and St. Louis had voted on May 31, to establish the primary credit rate at the existing 
level (2-1/4 percent).  The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Kansas 
City, and Dallas had voted on May 24, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks 
of Boston, Richmond, and Minneapolis had voted on May 31, to establish a rate of 
2-1/2 percent (an increase from 2-1/4 percent). 

Overall, Federal Reserve Bank directors were positive about the economic 
outlook.  Many directors reported solid economic activity in their Districts, including 
increased inventory and capital investment by businesses.  Directors commented on 
still-tight labor markets, and some directors noted increasing pressures on wages, 
particularly for certain types of skilled workers.  Some directors expressed concerns 
about potential risks associated with international developments and trade policy. 
Inflation was at or near the Federal Open Market Committee's 2 percent objective. 

The directors of six Reserve Banks favored establishing the primary credit rate at 
the current level of 2-1/4 percent, in light of current and expected economic conditions. 
The directors of six Reserve Banks favored increasing the primary credit rate to 
2-1/2 percent.  These directors judged that an increase in short-term interest rates was 
warranted at this time in light of solid economic growth, tight labor markets, and inflation 
at or near the FOMC's target rate of 2 percent. 

No sentiment was expressed by the Board at today's meeting for changing the 

primary credit rate at this time, and the Board approved the establishment of the primary 

Page  1 

credit rate at the existing level of 2-1/4 percent.  (NOTE:  At the joint Board-FOMC 
meeting on May 2, 2018, the Board had approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at its existing level of 2-1/4 percent.) 

The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of the 
existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under 
the secondary and seasonal credit programs.  As specified by the formula for the 
secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit 
rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be reset 
every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the rate on 
three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Powell, Vice Chairman for Supervision Quarles,

 and Governor Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, June 4, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, June 1, 2018. 

2018. 

MONETARY POLICY IMPLEMENTATION -- Increase in the interest rate on reserve 
balances and in the primary credit rate; renewal of secondary and seasonal credit 
formulas. 

Approved. 
June 13, 2018. 

In a joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and the Board 
today, the FOMC decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 basis 
points, to 1-3/4 to 2 percent, effective June 14, 2018.  To support the Committee's 
decision to raise the target range for the federal funds rate, the Board approved raising 
the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances to 1.95 percent, effective 
June 14, 2018.  Setting the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances 
5 basis points below the top of the target range for the federal funds rate is intended to 
foster trading in the federal funds market at rates well within the FOMC's target range. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

eleven Federal Reserve Banks had voted to establish an increase in the rate for 
discounts and advances under the primary credit program (the primary credit rate). The 
directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Richmond, and Minneapolis had 
voted on May 31, 2018, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, 

Page  2 

Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco had 
voted on June 7, to establish a primary credit rate of 2-1/2 percent (an increase from 
2-1/4 percent).  (NOTE:  At its meeting on June 4, 2018, the Board had approved the 
establishment of the primary credit rate at its existing level of 2-1/4 percent.) 

At today's meeting, there was consensus for a 25-basis-point increase, and the 

Board approved an increase in the primary credit rate from 2-1/4 percent to 
2-1/2 percent, effective June 14, 2018, for the eleven Reserve Banks that had voted for 
such an increase.  The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included 
renewal of the existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and 
advances under the secondary and seasonal credit programs.  As specified by the 
formula for the secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the 
primary credit rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate 
would continue to be reset every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal 
funds rate and the rate on three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the 
nearest 5 basis points. 

It was understood that a press release and an accompanying document on 
monetary policy implementation would be issued to announce the increases in the 
interest rate on reserve balances and the primary credit rate.  In addition, the Secretary 
was authorized to inform the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, on its establishment of 
a primary credit rate of 2-1/2 percent, of the Board's approval and determination, 
effective on the later of June 14, 2018, or the date the Reserve Bank informed the 
Secretary of its request.  (NOTE:  Subsequently, the Secretary informed the New York 
Reserve Bank of the Board's approval of its establishment of a primary credit rate of 
2-1/2 percent, effective June 14, 2018.) 

Voting for these actions:  Chairman Powell, Vice Chairman for Supervision

 Quarles, and Governor Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  FOMC Statement (with attached Implementation Note), June 13; 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, June 8, 2018. 

press release, June 14; transmissions from Ms. Misback to the 
Reserve Banks, June 13 and 14; and Federal Register documents 
(Docket Nos. R-1611 and R-1610, RINs 7100-AF07 and 
7100-AF08), June 15, 2018. 

Page  3 

