DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE  RATES -  Establishment  without  change by  twelve 
Reserve  Banks  of the existing  primary  credit  rate;  renewal  by those  Banks  of  the 
formulas  for  calculating  the secondary  and seasonal  credit  rates  and  of  the 
auction  procedure for  determining  the rate for  the Term Auction  Facility;  and 
renewal  by the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York  of the formulas  for  calculating 
the rates for  the Term Asset-Backed  Securities  Loan  Facility. 

Approved. 
September 8, 2009. 

The Board approved the establishment without change of the rate for discounts 
and advances under the primary credit program  (1/2 percent) by the Federal  Reserve 
Bank of Richmond on August 26, 2009, by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 
Cleveland, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco on August 27, and by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York,  Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, and Minneapolis 
on September 3.  The Board also approved renewal by those Banks, on the dates 
indicated above, of the formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and 
advances under the secondary and seasonal credit programs and of the auction 
procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction Facility.  In addition, the Board 
approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on September 3 of the 
formulas for calculating the rates for the Term Asset-Backed Securities  Loan Facility. 

Voting for  this  action:  Chairman  Bernanke and  Governors  Warsh, Duke, 

and  Tarullo. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve  Banks, and 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, September 4, 2009. 

transmission from Ms. Beattie to the Federal Reserve  Bank of 
New York, September 8, 2009. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE  RATES -  Establishment  without  change by  twelve 
Reserve  Banks  of the existing  primary  credit  rate. 

Existing  rate maintained. 
September  21, 2009. 

Page  1 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Cleveland, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco 
had voted on September 10, 2009, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City had 
voted on September 17 to reestablish the existing rate for discounts and advances 
(1/2 percent) under the primary credit program  (primary credit rate). 

Federal Reserve Bank directors cited signs of an increase in economic activity 

and commented that prospects for growth during the second half of this year had 
improved.  Some directors also noted that home prices appeared to be stabilizing. 
Nevertheless, directors generally regarded overall economic conditions as weak and 
financial markets, particularly the banking sector, as still strained.  Household spending 
remained damped, constrained  in part by job losses and consumer caution.  However, 
some directors noted that businesses' inventories were now better aligned with sales. 
Inflation was generally seen as subdued and likely to remain so for some time because 
of considerable  resource slack and modest  inflation expectations.  In these 
circumstances, directors agreed that the current accommodative stance of monetary 
policy remained appropriate. 

Today,  Board members considered the primary credit rate and discussed, on a 

preliminary  basis, their individual assessments of the appropriate rate and its 
communication, which would be discussed at the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee this week.  No sentiment was expressed for changing the primary credit rate 
before the Committee's meeting, and the existing rate was maintained. 

Participating  in this  determination:  Chairman  Bernanke, Vice Chairman  Kohn, 

and  Governors  Warsh, Duke, and Tarullo. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve  Banks, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, September  18, 2009. 

September  21, 2009. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE  RATES -  Renewal  by twelve  Reserve  Banks  of  the 
formulas  for  calculating  the secondary  and seasonal  credit  rates;  renewal  by 
those  Banks  of the auction  procedure for  determining  the rate for  the Term 
Auction  Facility;  and  renewal  by the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York  of  the 
formulas  for  calculating  the rates for  the Term Asset-Backed  Securities  Loan 
Facility. 

Approved. 
September  21, 2009. 

Page  2 

The Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 

Cleveland, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco on September 10, 2009, and by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York,  Philadelphia,  Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
Minneapolis, and Kansas City on September 17 of the formulas for calculating the rates 
applicable to discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit 
programs and of the auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction 
Facility.  In addition, the Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York on September 17 of the formulas for calculating the rates for the Term Asset-
Backed Securities  Loan Facility. 

Voting for  this  action:  Chairman  Bernanke, Vice Chairman  Kohn, and 

Governors  Warsh, Duke, and  Tarullo. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve  Banks, and 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, September  18, 2009. 

transmission from Ms. Beattie to the Federal Reserve  Bank of 
New York, September  21, 2009. 

Page  3 

