DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by four Reserve Banks to maintain
the existing primary credit rate and requests by eight Reserve Banks to increase
the rate; requests to renew the secondary and seasonal credit formulas. 

Existing rate and formulas approved.
December 4, 2017. 

Today, Board members discussed economic and financial developments and 

issues related to possible policy actions.  In connection with this discussion, Board 
members considered discounts and advances under the primary credit program (the 
primary credit rate) and discussed, on a preliminary basis, their individual assessments 
of the appropriate rate and its communication, which would be discussed at the joint 
meeting of the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) next week. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas had voted on November 22, 2017, and the directors 
of the Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis had voted on 
November 30, to establish the primary credit rate at the existing level (1-3/4 percent). 
The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland and San Francisco had voted 
on November 22, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, 
Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, and Kansas City had voted on November 30, to 
establish a rate of 2 percent (an increase from 1-3/4 percent). 

Federal Reserve Bank directors noted continued economic growth and positive 
conditions in various sectors, including manufacturing and energy.  In some Districts, 
directors reported strong consumer spending heading into the holiday season.  Overall, 
directors noted ongoing strength in labor markets, although directors had mixed reports 
concerning the availability of workers to fill certain positions. Wage pressures were 
generally described as modest.  Inflation remained somewhat below the Federal 
Reserve's 2 percent objective.  Many directors also noted uncertainty about the 
potential economic effects of proposed fiscal policy. 

The directors of four Reserve Banks favored establishing the primary credit rate 

at the current level of 1-3/4 percent.  Against the backdrop of continued soft readings 
on inflation, these directors judged that it would be appropriate to maintain the current 
level of short-term interest rates and assess whether incoming data support the outlook 
for continued moderate economic growth, further strengthening in labor markets, and 
a gradual return of inflation to 2 percent over the medium term.  The directors of 
eight Reserve Banks favored increasing the primary credit rate to 2 percent.  These 
directors judged that an increase in short-term interest rates was warranted in light of 

Page  1 

solid economic growth, already tight labor markets, and an expected rise in inflation 
toward 2 percent. 

No sentiment was expressed by the Board at today's meeting for changing the 

primary credit rate at this time, and the Board approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at the existing level of 1-3/4 percent.  (NOTE:  At the joint Board-FOMC 
meeting on November 1, 2017, the Board had taken no action on requests by the 
Cleveland, Richmond, and Kansas City Reserve Banks to increase the primary credit 
rate.) 

The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of the 
existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under 
the secondary and seasonal credit programs.  As specified by the formula for the 
secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit 
rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be reset 
every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the rate on 
three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

Voting for this action:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman for Supervision Quarles,

   

and Governors Powell and Brainard. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, December 1, 2017. 
Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, 

December 4, 2017. 

MONETARY POLICY IMPLEMENTATION -- Increase in the interest rate on reserve 
balances and in the primary credit rate; renewal of secondary and seasonal credit
formulas. 

Approved.
December 13, 2017. 

In a joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and the Board 
today, the FOMC decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 basis 
points, to 1-1/4 to 1-1/2 percent, effective December 14, 2017.  To support the 
Committee's decision to raise the target range for the federal funds rate, the Board 
approved raising the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances from 
1-1/4 percent to 1-1/2 percent, effective December 14, 2017. 

Page  2 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
nine Federal Reserve Banks had voted to establish an increase in the rate for discounts 
and advances under the primary credit program (the primary credit rate).  The directors 
of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and New York had voted on November 30, 
2017, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, 
Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco had voted on December 7, 
to establish a primary credit rate of 2 percent (an increase from 1-3/4 percent).  The 
directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis had voted on December 7 to 
establish the primary credit rate at the existing level of 1-3/4 percent.  (NOTE:  At its 
meeting on December 4, 2017, the Board had taken no action on requests by the 
Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, and San 
Francisco Reserve Banks to increase the primary credit rate.) 

At today's meeting, there was consensus for a 25-basis-point increase, and the 
Board approved an increase in the primary credit rate from 1-3/4 percent to 2 percent, 
effective December 14, 2017, for the nine Reserve Banks that had voted for such an 
increase.  The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of 
the existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances 
under the secondary and seasonal credit programs.  As specified by the formula for the 
secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit 
rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would continue to 
be reset every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate 
and the rate on three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the 
nearest 5 basis points. 

It was understood that a press release and an accompanying document on 
monetary policy implementation would be issued to announce the increases in the 
interest rate on reserve balances and the primary credit rate.  In addition, the Secretary 
was authorized to inform the Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago, St. Louis, and 
Minneapolis, on their establishment of a primary credit rate of 2 percent, of the Board's 
approval and determination, effective on the later of December 14, 2017, or the date the 
Reserve Bank informed the Secretary of its request.  (NOTE:  Subsequently, the 
Secretary informed the Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis Reserve Banks of the 
Board's approval of their establishment of a primary credit rate of 2 percent, effective 
December 14, 2017.) 

Voting for these actions:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman for Supervision Quarles,

and Governors Powell and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  FOMC Statement with attached implementation note, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, December 8, 2017. 

December 13; press release, December 14; transmissions from 
Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, December 13 and 14; and
Federal Register documents (Docket Nos. R-1592 and R-1593,
RINs 7100 AE-93 and 7200 AE-04), December 15, 2017.

Page  3 

Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, December 13 and 14; and 
Federal Register documents (Docket Nos. R-1592 and R-1593, 
RINs 7100 AE-93 and 7200 AE-04), December 15, 2017. 

Page  4 

