DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Rates on discounts and advances 
unchanged. 

Approved. 
January 23, 2017. 

Today, Board members discussed economic and financial developments and 

issues related to possible policy actions.  In connection with this discussion, Board 
members considered discounts and advances under the primary credit program (the 
primary credit rate) and discussed, on a preliminary basis, their individual assessments 
of the appropriate rate and its communication, which would be discussed at the joint 
meeting of the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee next week.  (NOTE:  Ten 
Reserve Banks had submitted requests to establish the primary credit rate at the 
existing level, and two Reserve Banks had submitted requests to increase the primary 
credit rate.) 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Dallas, and San Francisco had voted 
on January 12, 2017, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, 
Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City had voted on January 19, to 
establish the primary credit rate at the existing level (1-1/4 percent).  The directors of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland had voted on January 12, and the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond had voted on January 19, to establish a rate of 
1-1/2 percent (an increase from 1-1/4 percent). 

Federal Reserve Bank directors noted continued increases in economic activity 

and improvement in labor market conditions.  Overall, directors judged that the 
economy was likely to continue to grow at a moderate pace.  Directors had mostly 
favorable reports on consumer spending, including strong online sales and robust auto 
sales in some Districts.  Several directors observed a further pickup in manufacturing 
activity in certain industries, and they generally reported continued growth in the 
housing sector.  Many directors pointed to an elevated level of uncertainty about 
potential fiscal and other government policies and their likely effect on the economy.  In 
most Districts, directors reported further strengthening in labor markets.  Directors in a 
number of Districts judged that the economy was at or near full employment.  Directors 
continued to highlight the shortage of qualified workers for skilled positions and certain 
other types of jobs.  Some directors also noted emerging wage pressures.  Inflation had 
increased recently but remained below the Federal Reserve's 2 percent objective. 

Page  1 

Against this backdrop, the directors of ten Federal Reserve Banks recommended 

that the primary credit rate be established at its current level of 1-1/4 percent.  These 
directors concluded that it would be appropriate to maintain an accommodative stance 
of monetary policy, pending the assessment of additional information on economic 
performance over the coming months.  The directors of two Reserve Banks 
recommended increasing the primary credit rate to 1-1/2 percent, given the actual and 
expected strengthening in economic activity and labor markets and signs that inflation 
was likely to be close to 2 percent in the near term. 

No sentiment was expressed by the Board at today's meeting for changing the 

primary credit rate at this time, and the Board approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at the existing level of 1-1/4 percent.  At its meeting on December 14, 2016, 
the Board had approved the establishment of the primary credit rate at 1-1/4 percent (an 
increase from 1 percent). 

Today, the Board also approved the establishment of the interest rates for 

discounts and advances made under the secondary and seasonal credit programs, as 
those rates are calculated with the existing formulas.  The recommendation to retain the 
existing formulas was made by the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 
New York, Cleveland, Dallas, and San Francisco on January 12, 2017, and by the 
directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City on January 19.  As specified by the formula for 
the secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit 
rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be reset 
every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the rate on 
three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

Voting for these actions:  Vice Chairman Fischer and Governors Tarullo,

 Powell, and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, January 23, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 19, 2017. 

2017. 

MONETARY POLICY IMPLEMENTATION -- Rates on reserve balances and on 
discounts and advances unchanged. 

Approved. 
February 1, 2017. 

Page  2 

In a joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee and the Board today, 
the Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 1/2 to 
3/4 percent.  Consistent with the Committee's decision to leave the target range for the 
federal funds rate unchanged, the Board approved maintaining the existing interest 
rates (3/4 percent) paid on required and excess reserve balances.  At today's meeting, 
the Board also approved the establishment of interest rates on discounts and advances 
made (1) under the primary credit program (the primary credit rate) at the existing level 
(1-1/4 percent) and (2) under the secondary and seasonal credit programs, as those 
rates are calculated with the existing formulas.  (NOTE:  Five Reserve Banks had 
submitted requests to establish the primary credit rate at the existing level, and two 
Reserve Banks had submitted requests to increase the primary credit rate.) 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco 
had voted on January 26, 2017, to establish the primary credit rate at the existing level 
(1-1/4 percent).  The directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond had voted on 
January 19, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland had voted on 
January 26, to establish a rate of 1-1/2 percent (an increase from 1-1/4 percent).  At its 
meeting on January 23, the Board had taken no action on requests to increase the 
primary credit rate by the Cleveland and Richmond Reserve Banks. 

In addition, the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond had 

recommended on January 19, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Boston, New York, Cleveland, Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco had recommended on 
January 26, that the existing formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit 
rates be retained.  As specified by the formula for the secondary credit rate, this rate 
would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit rate.  As specified by the formula 
for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be reset every two weeks as the average of 
the daily effective federal funds rate and the rate on three-month CDs over the previous 
14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

Voting for these actions:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 

 Governors Tarullo, Powell, and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Press release with attached Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 27, 2017. 

Implementation, February 1, and transmissions from Mr. Frierson to 
the Reserve Banks, February 1, 2017. 

Page  3 

