DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by nine Reserve Banks to maintain 
the existing primary credit rate and requests by three Reserve Banks to increase 
the rate; requests to renew the secondary and seasonal credit formulas. 

Existing rate and formulas approved. 
August 27, 2018. 

Today, Board members discussed economic and financial developments and 

issues related to possible policy actions.  In connection with this discussion, Board 
members considered discounts and advances under the primary credit program (the 
primary credit rate) and discussed, on a preliminary basis, their individual assessments 
of the appropriate rate and its communication, which would be discussed at the next 
joint meeting of the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, and 
Minneapolis had voted on August 16, 2018, and the directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, Atlanta, St. Louis, and San Francisco had voted on August 23, to 
establish the primary credit rate at the existing level (2.50 percent).  The directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City had voted on August 16, and the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland and Dallas had voted on August 23, to establish a 
rate of 2.75 percent (an increase from 2.50 percent). 

No sentiment was expressed by the Board at today's meeting for changing the 

primary credit rate at this time, and the Board approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at the existing level of 2.50 percent.  (NOTE:  At the joint Board-FOMC 
meeting on August 1, 2018, the Board had approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at 2.50 percent.)

 The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of the 
existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under 
the secondary and seasonal credit programs.  As specified by the formula for the 
secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit 
rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be reset 
every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the rate on 
three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Powell, Vice Chairman for Supervision Quarles,

 and Governor Brainard. 

Background:

Office of the Secretary memorandum, August 24, 2018.

Page  1 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, August 27, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, August 24, 2018. 

2018. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by four Reserve Banks to maintain 
the existing primary credit rate and requests by eight Reserve Banks to increase 
the rate; requests to renew the secondary and seasonal credit formulas. 

Existing rate and formulas approved. 
September 17, 2018. 

Today, Board members discussed economic and financial developments and 

issues related to possible policy actions.  In connection with this discussion, Board 
members considered discounts and advances under the primary credit program (the 
primary credit rate) and discussed, on a preliminary basis, their individual assessments 
of the appropriate rate and its communication, which would be discussed at the joint 
meeting of the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) next week. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia and Atlanta had voted on September 6, 
2018, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York and Minneapolis had 
voted on September 13, to establish the primary credit rate at the existing level 
(2.50 percent).  The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and St. Louis had 
voted on September 6, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, 
Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco had voted on 
September 13, to establish a rate of 2.75 percent (an increase from 2.50 percent). 

Federal Reserve Bank directors had favorable reports on economic conditions 

across sectors and Districts, and many expressed optimism about the economic 
outlook.  Many directors reported strong consumer spending and increased retail sales, 
and some directors observed strong growth in the manufacturing sector.  Directors 
noted continued tightening in labor markets, shortages of both skilled and unskilled 
workers, and resulting increases in labor costs, including for new hires.  In addition, 
many directors cited higher wages, rising input costs, or both as contributing to higher 
prices for finished goods.  Most directors continued to express concerns about the 
impact of trade policy on activity in specific sectors and on economic growth more 
broadly.  Inflation was at or near the FOMC's 2 percent objective. 

The directors of four Reserve Banks judged that establishing the primary credit 

rate at the current level of 2.50 percent was appropriate for now.  In light of solid 
economic growth, tight labor markets, and inflation at or near the FOMC's 2 percent 

Page  2 

objective, the directors of eight Reserve Banks judged that it would be appropriate to 
raise the primary credit rate to 2.75 percent. 

No sentiment was expressed by the Board at today's meeting for changing the 

primary credit rate at this time, and the Board approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at the existing level of 2.50 percent.  (NOTE:  At its meeting on August 27, 
2018, the Board had approved the establishment of the primary credit rate at 
2.50 percent.) 

The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of the 
existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under 
the secondary and seasonal credit programs.  As specified by the formula for the 
secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit 
rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be reset 
every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the rate on 
three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Powell, Vice Chairman Clarida, Vice Chairman

 for Supervision Quarles, and Governor Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, September 14, 2018. 

September 17, 2018. 

MONETARY POLICY IMPLEMENTATION -- Increase in the interest rate on reserve 
balances and in the primary credit rate; renewal of secondary and seasonal credit 
formulas. 

Approved. 
September 26, 2018. 

In a joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and the Board 
today, the FOMC decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 basis 
points, to 2 to 2-1/4 percent, effective September 27, 2018.  To support the Committee's 
decision to raise the target range for the federal funds rate, the Board approved raising 
the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances from 1.95 percent to 
2.20 percent, effective September 27, 2018. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
ten Federal Reserve Banks had voted to establish an increase in the rate for discounts 

Page  3 

and advances under the primary credit program (the primary credit rate).  The directors 
of the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, 
and San Francisco had voted on September 13, 2018, and the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and St. Louis had voted on September 
20, to establish a primary credit rate of 2.75 percent (an increase from 2.50 percent). 
(NOTE:  At its meeting on September 17, the Board had approved the establishment of 
the primary credit rate at 2.50 percent.) 

At today's meeting, there was consensus for a 25-basis-point increase, and the 

Board approved an increase in the primary credit rate from 2.50 percent to 2.75 percent, 
effective September 27, 2018, for the ten Reserve Banks that had voted for such an 
increase.  The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of 
the existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances 
under the secondary and seasonal credit programs.  As specified by the formula for the 
secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit 
rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would continue to 
be reset every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the 
rate on three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis 
points. 

It was understood that a press release and an accompanying document on 
monetary policy implementation would be issued to announce the increases in the 
interest rate on reserve balances and the primary credit rate.  In addition, the Secretary 
was authorized to inform the Federal Reserve Banks of New York and Minneapolis, on 
their establishment of a primary credit rate of 2.75 percent, of the Board's approval and 
determination, effective on the later of September 27, 2018, or the date the Reserve 
Bank informed the Secretary of its request.  (Note:  Subsequently, the Secretary 
informed the New York and Minneapolis Reserve Banks of the Board's approval of their 
establishment of a primary credit rate of 2.75 percent, effective September 27, 2018.) 

Voting for these actions:  Chairman Powell, Vice Chairman Clarida,

 Vice Chairman for Supervision Quarles,
 and Governor Brainard. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, September 21, 2018. 

Background: 
Implementation:  FOMC Statement (with attached Implementation Note), September 
26; press release, September 27; transmissions from Ms. Misback 
to the Reserve Banks, September 26 and 27; and Federal Register 
documents (Docket Nos. R-1623 and R-1624, RINs 7100-AF17 and 
7100-AF18), September 27, 2018. 

Page  4 

