DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by ten Reserve Banks to maintain 
the existing primary credit rate and requests by two Reserve Banks to increase 
the rate; requests to renew secondary and seasonal credit formulas. 

Existing rate and formulas approved. 
February 13, 2017. 

Today, Board members discussed economic and financial developments and 

issues related to possible policy actions.  In connection with this discussion, Board 
members considered discounts and advances under the primary credit program (the 
primary credit rate) and discussed, on a preliminary basis, their individual assessments 
of the appropriate rate and its communication, which would be discussed at the next 
joint meeting of the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and 
Kansas City had voted on February 2, 2017, and the directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, New York, Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco had voted on 
February 9, to establish the primary credit rate at the existing level (1-1/4 percent).  The 
directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond had voted on February 2, and the 
directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland had voted on February 9, to 
establish a rate of 1-1/2 percent (an increase from 1-1/4 percent). 

No sentiment was expressed by the Board at today's meeting for changing the 

primary credit rate at this time, and the Board approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at the existing level of 1-1/4 percent.  At its meeting on February 1, 2017, the 
Board had taken no action on requests to increase the primary credit rate by the 
Cleveland and Richmond Reserve Banks. 

Today, the Board also approved the establishment of the interest rates for 

discounts and advances made under the secondary and seasonal credit programs, as 
those rates are calculated with the existing formulas.  The recommendation to renew 
the existing formulas was made by the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, 
Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City on February 2, 2017, and 
by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Cleveland, Atlanta, Dallas, and San 
Francisco on February 9.  As specified by the formula for the secondary credit rate, this 
rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit rate.  As specified by the 
formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be reset every two weeks as the 
average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the rate on three-month CDs over 
the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

Page  1 

Voting for these actions:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governors Tarullo, Powell, and Brainard. 

Background: 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, February 10, 2017. 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, 

February 13, 2017. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by five Reserve Banks to maintain 
the existing primary credit rate and requests by seven Reserve Banks to increase 
the rate; requests to renew secondary and seasonal credit formulas. 

Existing rate and formulas approved. 
March 6, 2017. 

Today, Board members discussed economic and financial developments and 

issues related to possible policy actions.  In connection with this discussion, Board 
members considered discounts and advances under the primary credit program (the 
primary credit rate) and discussed, on a preliminary basis, their individual assessments 
of the appropriate rate and its communication, which would be discussed at the joint 
meeting of the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee next week. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Atlanta, and San Francisco had voted on 
February 23, 2017, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of St. Louis and 
Minneapolis had voted on March 2, to establish the primary credit rate at the existing 
level (1-1/4 percent).  The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland and 
Dallas had voted on February 23, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, and Kansas City had voted on March 2, to 
establish a rate of 1-1/2 percent (an increase from 1-1/4 percent). 

Overall, Federal Reserve Bank directors judged that the economy was likely to 

continue to expand at a solid pace.  Several directors reported strong loan demand, 
particularly for new-home purchases, refinancing, and autos.  Some directors stated 
that consumer spending had picked up recently and also noted the continued shift 
toward online purchases.  In addition, gains in manufacturing activity were observed in 
some Districts, with price increases reported in certain sectors.  Some directors noted 
signs of further tightening in labor markets, including an ongoing shortage of qualified 
workers for certain skilled positions and other jobs and moderate wage pressures. 
Several directors continued to express uncertainty about potential fiscal and other 

Page  2 

government policies and their likely effect on the economy.  Inflation remained below the 
Federal Reserve's 2 percent objective. 

The directors of seven Reserve Banks recommended increasing the primary 

credit rate to 1-1/2 percent, based on their assessment that economic activity and labor 
markets continued to strengthen and that inflation was likely to be at or near 2 percent 
in the medium term.  The directors of five Federal Reserve Banks recommended that 
the primary credit rate be established at its current level of 1-1/4 percent.  These 
directors concluded that it would be appropriate to maintain the current stance of 
monetary policy, pending the assessment of additional information over the coming 
months. 

No sentiment was expressed by the Board at today's meeting for changing the 

primary credit rate at this time, and the Board approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at the existing level of 1-1/4 percent.  At its meeting on February 13, 2017, 
the Board had taken no action on requests to increase the primary credit rate by the 
Cleveland and Richmond Reserve Banks. 

Today, the Board also approved the establishment of the interest rates for 

discounts and advances made under the secondary and seasonal credit programs, as 
those rates are calculated with the existing formulas.  The recommendation to renew 
the existing formulas was made by the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New 
York, Cleveland, Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco on February 23, 2017, and by the 
directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, 
St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City on March 2.  As specified by the formula for the 
secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit 
rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be reset 
every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the rate on 
three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

Voting for these actions:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer,

 and Governors Tarullo, Powell, and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, March 6, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, March 3, 2017. 

2017. 

MONETARY POLICY IMPLEMENTATION -- Increase in the interest rate on reserve 
balances and in the primary credit rate; renewal of secondary and seasonal credit 
formulas. 

Approved.
March 15, 2017.
Page  3 

Approved. 
March 15, 2017. 

In a joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee and the Board today, 
the Committee decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 basis 
points, to 3/4 percent to 1 percent, effective March 16, 2017.  To support the 
Committee's decision to raise the target range for the federal funds rate, the Board 
approved raising the interest rates paid on required and excess reserve balances from 
3/4 percent to 1 percent, effective March 16, 2017. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, nine Reserve 

Banks had requested an increase in the rate for discounts and advances under the 
primary credit program (the primary credit rate), and one Reserve Bank had requested 
no change in the rate.  The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 
Philadelphia, and Richmond had voted on March 2, and the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco 
had voted on March 9, 2017, to establish a primary credit rate of 1-1/2 percent (an 
increase from 1-1/4 percent).  The directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
had voted on March 9 to establish the primary credit rate at the existing level 
(1-1/4 percent).  At its meeting on March 6, the Board had taken no action on requests 
to increase the primary credit rate by the Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, 
Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas Reserve Banks. 

At today's meeting, there was consensus for a 25-basis-point increase, and the 

Board approved an increase in the primary credit rate from 1-1/4 percent to 
1-1/2 percent, effective March 16, 2017, for the nine Reserve Banks that had requested 
such an increase.  This vote of the Board also encompassed approval of the renewal by 
those nine Reserve Banks of the existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to 
discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit programs.  As 
specified by the formula for the secondary credit rate, the rate would be set 50 basis 
points above the primary credit rate.  And as specified by the formula for the seasonal 
credit rate, the rate would continue to be reset every two weeks as the average of the 
daily effective federal funds rate and the rate on three-month CDs over the previous 
14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

It was understood that a press release and an accompanying document on 
monetary policy implementation would be issued to announce the increases in the 
interest rate on reserve balances and the primary credit rate.  In addition, the Secretary 
was authorized to inform the remaining Reserve Banks, on their establishment of a 
primary credit rate of 1-1/2 percent, of the Board's approval and determination, effective 
on the later of March 16, 2017, or the date the Reserve Bank informed the Secretary of 
its request.  (NOTE:  Subsequently, the Secretary informed the Federal Reserve Banks 

Page  4 

of New York, St. Louis, and Minneapolis of the Board's approval of their establishment 
of a primary credit rate of 1-1/2 percent, effective March 16, 2017.) 

Voting for these actions:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer,

 and Governors Tarullo, Powell, and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  FOMC statement with attached Decisions Regarding Monetary 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, March 10, 2017. 

Policy Implementation, March 15; press releases, March 15 and 16; 
and transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, 
March 15 and 16, 2017. 

Page  5 

