DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by five Reserve Banks to maintain 
the existing primary credit rate and requests by seven Reserve Banks to increase 
the rate; requests to renew secondary and seasonal credit formulas. 

Existing rate and formulas approved. 
June 5, 2017. 

Today, Board members discussed economic and financial developments and 

issues related to possible policy actions.  In connection with this discussion, Board 
members considered discounts and advances under the primary credit program (the 
primary credit rate) and discussed, on a preliminary basis, their individual assessments 
of the appropriate rate and its communication, which would be discussed at the joint 
meeting of the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) next week. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta and San Francisco had voted on May 25, 2017, 
and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, St. Louis, and Minneapolis 
had voted on June 1, to establish the primary credit rate at the existing level 
(1-1/2 percent).  The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Kansas City, 
and Dallas had voted on May 25, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, and Chicago had voted on June 1, to establish a rate 
of 1-3/4 percent (an increase from 1-1/2  percent). 

Federal Reserve Bank directors generally had positive reports on economic 
activity across various sectors, including housing and manufacturing.  Reports on 
consumer spending were somewhat mixed, though some directors cited continued 
strength in online sales and a still-healthy level of auto sales.  Other directors noted 
strong loan growth in the banking sector, as well as an improved global economic 
outlook.  Many directors commented on tightening labor market conditions and the 
continued difficulty of finding qualified workers across a broad spectrum of positions.  In 
some Districts, directors also reported moderate wage pressures.  While several 
directors noted that readings of core inflation had softened recently, these declines were 
largely viewed as transitory. 

The directors of five Reserve Banks favored establishing the primary credit rate 
at its current level of 1-1/2 percent.  These directors concluded it would be appropriate 
to maintain the current stance of monetary policy for the time being and continue to 
assess incoming data and the implications for the economic outlook.  The directors of 
seven Reserve Banks favored increasing the primary credit rate to 1-3/4 percent. 
These directors pointed to tight labor markets as a factor that would likely contribute to 

Page  1 

an increase in price pressures over time.  Against this backdrop, these directors judged 
that continued gradual removal of policy accommodation was appropriate. 

No sentiment was expressed by the Board at today's meeting for changing the 

primary credit rate at this time, and the Board approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at the existing level of 1-1/2 percent.  (NOTE:  At the joint Board-FOMC 
meeting on May 3, 2017, the Board had taken no action on requests to increase the 
primary credit rate by the Richmond and Kansas City Reserve Banks.) 

The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of the 
existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under 
the secondary and seasonal credit programs for all twelve Reserve Banks.  The 
directors of each Reserve Bank had requested renewal of these formulas on the dates 
previously noted for their votes on the primary credit rate.  As specified by the formula 
for the secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary 
credit rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be 
reset every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the 
rate on three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis 
points. 

Voting for this action:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governors Powell and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, June 5, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, June 2, 2017. 

2017. 

MONETARY POLICY IMPLEMENTATION -- Increase in the interest rate on reserve 
balances and in the primary credit rate; renewal of secondary and seasonal credit 
formulas. 

Approved. 
June 14, 2017. 

In a joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and the Board 
today, the FOMC decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 basis 
points, to 1 percent to 1-1/4 percent, effective June 15, 2017.  To support the 
Committee's decision to raise the target range for the federal funds rate, the Board 
approved raising the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances from 
1 percent to 1-1/4 percent, effective June 15, 2017. 

Page  2 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
nine Federal Reserve Banks had voted to establish an increase in the rate for discounts 
and advances under the primary credit program (the primary credit rate).  The directors 
of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, and Chicago had 
voted on June 1, 2017, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, 
Atlanta, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco had voted on June 8, to establish a 
primary credit rate of 1-3/4 percent (an increase from 1-1/2 percent).  (NOTE:  At its 
meeting on June 5, 2017, the Board had taken no action on requests by the Boston, 
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas Reserve Banks 
to increase the primary credit rate.) 

At today's meeting, there was consensus for a 25-basis-point increase, and the 

Board approved an increase in the primary credit rate from 1-1/2 percent to 
1-3/4 percent, effective June 15, 2017, for the nine Reserve Banks that had voted for 
such an increase.  The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included 
renewal of the existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and 
advances under the secondary and seasonal credit programs for the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Cleveland, Atlanta, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.  The directors of 
these Reserve Banks had requested renewal of the formulas on the dates previously 
noted for their votes on the primary credit rate. The remaining Reserve Banks had 
previously established secondary and seasonal credit rates with the Board's approval. 
As specified by the formula for the secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis 
points above the primary credit rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit 
rate, this rate would continue to be reset every two weeks as the average of the daily 
effective federal funds rate and the rate on three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, 
rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

It was understood that a press release and an accompanying document on 
monetary policy implementation would be issued to announce the increases in the 
interest rate on reserve balances and the primary credit rate.  In addition, the Secretary 
was authorized to inform the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, St. Louis, and 
Minneapolis, on their establishment of a primary credit rate of 1-3/4 percent, of the 
Board's approval and determination, effective on the later of June 15, 2017, or the date 
the Reserve Bank informed the Secretary of its request.  (NOTE:  Subsequently, the 
Secretary informed the New York, St. Louis, and Minneapolis Reserve Banks of the 
Board's approval of their establishment of a primary credit rate of 1-3/4 percent, 
effective June 15, 2017.) 

Voting for these actions:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and Governors

 Powell and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation: FOMC statement with attached Decisions Regarding Monetary

Office of the Secretary memorandum, June 9, 2017. 

Policy Implementation, June 14; press release, June 15;
transmissions from Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, June 14
and 15; and Federal Register documents (Docket Nos. R-1565 and
R-1566, RINs 7100-AE79 and 7100-AE80), June 19, 2017.

Page  3 

Implementation:  FOMC statement with attached Decisions Regarding Monetary 

Policy Implementation, June 14; press release, June 15; 
transmissions from Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, June 14 
and 15; and Federal Register documents (Docket Nos. R-1565 and 
R-1566, RINs 7100-AE79 and 7100-AE80), June 19, 2017. 

Page  4 

