DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by twelve Reserve Banks to 
maintain the existing primary credit rate; requests to renew secondary and 
seasonal credit formulas. 

Existing rate and formulas approved. 
March 27, 2017. 

Today, Board members discussed economic and financial developments and 

issues related to possible policy actions.  In connection with this discussion, Board 
members considered discounts and advances under the primary credit program (the 
primary credit rate) and discussed, on a preliminary basis, their individual assessments 
of the appropriate rate and its communication, which would be discussed at the next 
joint meeting of the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis had voted on March 15, 2017; the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, and Minneapolis had 
voted on March 16; and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, 
Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco had voted on 
March 23 to establish the primary credit rate at the existing level (1-1/2 percent). 

No sentiment was expressed by the Board at today's meeting for changing the 

primary credit rate at this time, and the Board approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at the existing level of 1-1/2 percent.  (NOTE:  At the joint Board-FOMC 
meeting on March 15, 2017, the Board had approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at 1-1/2 percent, an increase from 1-1/4 percent.) 

The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of the 
existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under 
the secondary and seasonal credit programs for all twelve Reserve Banks.  The 
directors of each Reserve Bank had requested renewal of these formulas on the dates 
previously noted for their votes on the primary credit rate.  As specified by the formula 
for the secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary 
credit rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be 
reset every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the 
rate on three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis 
points. 

Page  1 

Voting for this action:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer and Governor Powell.

 Abstaining:  Governor Tarullo. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, March 24, 2017. 

March 27, 2017. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by ten Reserve Banks to maintain 
the existing primary credit rate and requests by two Reserve Banks to increase 
the rate; requests to renew secondary and seasonal credit formulas. 

Existing rate and formulas approved. 
April 24, 2017. 

Today, Board members discussed economic and financial developments and 

issues related to possible policy actions.  In connection with this discussion, Board 
members considered discounts and advances under the primary credit program (the 
primary credit rate) and discussed, on a preliminary basis, their individual assessments 
of the appropriate rate and its communication, which would be discussed at the joint 
meeting of the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee next week. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Dallas, and San Francisco had voted on 
April 13, 2017, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, 
Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis had voted on April 20, to 
establish the primary credit rate at the existing level (1-1/2 percent).  The directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond and Kansas City had voted on April 13 to 
establish a rate of 1-3/4 percent (an increase from 1-1/2 percent). 

Overall, Federal Reserve Bank directors judged that the economy seemed to be 

continuing to expand at a solid pace.  Directors generally noted steady or improved 
economic activity across various sectors, as well as greater optimism among 
households and businesses about the prospects for continued growth.  Several 
directors reported that consumer spending had held steady or increased, and some 
directors noted a rebound in vehicle sales.  Some directors observed continued strength 
in residential real estate markets and a pickup in residential mortgage activity.  Some 
directors also reported mixed conditions in commercial real estate markets and in the 
manufacturing, energy, and agricultural sectors.  Many directors cited stronger labor 
markets, signs of increased wage pressures, and ongoing difficulties finding and 
retaining workers for skilled and unskilled positions in certain industries and regions. 

Page  2 

Some directors continued to express uncertainty about the likely economic impact of 
potential fiscal, health care, and other government policies.  A number of directors noted 
that measures of core inflation continued to run below 2 percent, although a few 
directors mentioned that recent readings for headline inflation (which includes food and 
energy prices) had moved above the Federal Reserve's 2 percent objective. 

The directors of ten Reserve Banks favored establishing the primary credit rate at 

its current level of 1-1/2 percent.  These directors concluded it would be appropriate to 
maintain the current stance of monetary policy for the time being and continue to assess 
incoming data bearing on the economic outlook.  The directors of two Reserve Banks 
favored increasing the primary credit rate to 1-3/4 percent based on their assessment 
that the current stance of monetary policy was quite accommodative, while labor market 
conditions were tight and inflation had moved up close to the Federal Reserve's 
2 percent objective. 

No sentiment was expressed by the Board at today's meeting for changing the 

primary credit rate at this time, and the Board approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at the existing level of 1-1/2 percent.  (NOTE:  At its meeting on March 27, 
2017, the Board had approved the establishment of the primary credit rate by all twelve 
Reserve Banks at the existing level of 1-1/2 percent.) 

The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of the 
existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under 
the secondary and seasonal credit programs for all twelve Reserve Banks.  The 
directors of each Reserve Bank had requested renewal of these formulas on the dates 
previously noted for their votes on the primary credit rate.  As specified by the formula 
for the secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary 
credit rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be 
reset every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the 
rate on three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis 
points. 

Voting for this action:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governors Powell and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, April 21, 2017. 

April 24, 2017. 

MONETARY POLICY IMPLEMENTATION -- Rates on reserve balances and on 
discounts and advances unchanged. 

Approved.
May 3, 2017.
Page  3 

Approved. 
May 3, 2017. 

In a joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and the Board 

today, the FOMC decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 
3/4 to 1 percent.  Consistent with the FOMC's decision to leave the target range for the 
federal funds rate unchanged, the Board approved maintaining the existing interest 
rates (1 percent) paid on required and excess reserve balances.  At today's meeting, 
the Board also approved the establishment of interest rates on discounts and advances 
made under the primary credit program (the primary credit rate) at the existing level
 (1-1/2 percent). 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, 

the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Atlanta, Dallas, and 
San Francisco had voted on April 27, 2017, to establish the primary credit rate at the 
existing level (1-1/2 percent).  The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond 
and Kansas City had voted on April 27 to establish a rate of 1-3/4 percent (an increase 
from 1-1/2 percent).  (NOTE:  At its meeting on April 24, the Board had taken no action 
on requests to increase the primary credit rate by the Richmond and Kansas City 
Reserve Banks.) 

The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of the 
existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under 
the secondary and seasonal credit programs, as requested by the directors of those six 
Reserve Banks on April 27, 2017.  As specified by the formula for the secondary credit 
rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit rate.  As specified 
by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be reset every two weeks as 
the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the rate on three-month CDs 
over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

Voting for these actions:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governors Powell and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  FOMC statement with attached Decisions Regarding Monetary 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, April 28, 2017. 

Policy Implementation, May 3, and transmissions from Ms. Misback 
to the Reserve Banks, May 3, 2017. 

Page  4 

