DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by twelve Reserve Banks to 
maintain the existing primary credit rate; requests to renew the secondary and 
seasonal credit formulas. 

Existing rate and formulas approved. 
April 23, 2018. 

Today, Board members discussed economic and financial developments and 

issues related to possible policy actions.  In connection with this discussion, Board 
members considered discounts and advances under the primary credit program (the 
primary credit rate) and discussed, on a preliminary basis, their individual assessments 
of the appropriate rate and its communication, which would be discussed at the joint 
meeting of the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) next week. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Atlanta, Kansas City, Dallas, and San 
Francisco had voted on April 12, 2018, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks 
of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis had 
voted on April 19, to establish the primary credit rate at the existing level (2-1/4 percent). 

Overall, Federal Reserve Bank directors remained positive about the prospects 
for economic growth, and reports on economic conditions were mostly favorable across 
sectors and Districts.  Directors commented on the still-tight labor market for both skilled 
and unskilled workers and noted corresponding wage pressures.  Many directors 
continued to point to rising costs for raw materials as a factor putting upward pressure 
on prices for final goods and services.  Some directors expressed uncertainty about the 
potential economic effects of new or proposed changes in trade policy.  Some directors 
noted that inflation had picked up in recent months, but remained a little below the 
Federal Open Market Committee's 2 percent objective. 

The directors of all twelve Reserve Banks favored establishing the primary credit 
rate at its existing level of 2-1/4 percent at this time.  Most judged that it would likely be 
appropriate for the Federal Reserve to continue on a gradual path of policy firming in 
light of the outlook for continued solid economic growth, tight labor markets, and 
expectations for the gradual return of inflation to 2 percent over the medium term. 

No sentiment was expressed by the Board at today's meeting for changing the 

primary credit rate at this time, and the Board approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at the existing level of 2-1/4 percent.  (NOTE:  At the joint Board-FOMC 

Page  1 

meeting on March 21, 2018, the Board had approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at 2-1/4 percent, an increase from 2 percent.) 

The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of the 
existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under 
the secondary and seasonal credit programs.  As specified by the formula for the 
secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit 
rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be reset 
every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the rate on 
three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Powell, Vice Chairman for Supervision Quarles,

 and Governor Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, April 23, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, April 20, 2018. 

2018. 

MONETARY POLICY IMPLEMENTATION -- Rates on reserve balances and on 
discounts and advances unchanged. 

Approved. 
May 2, 2018. 

In a joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and the Board 
today, the FOMC decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 1-1/2 
to 1-3/4 percent.  Consistent with the FOMC's decision to leave the target range for the 
federal funds rate unchanged, the Board approved maintaining the existing interest 
rates (1-3/4 percent) paid on required and excess reserve balances.  At today's 
meeting, the Board also approved the establishment of the interest rate on discounts 
and advances made under the primary credit program (the primary credit rate) at the 
existing level (2-1/4 percent). 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Atlanta, Kansas City, Dallas, and San 
Francisco had voted on April 26, 2018, to establish the primary credit rate at the existing 
level (2-1/4 percent).  (NOTE:  At its meeting on April 23, 2018, the Board had approved 
the establishment of the primary credit rate of 2-1/4 percent by all twelve Reserve 
Banks.) 

Page  2 

The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of the 
existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under 
the secondary and seasonal credit programs.  As specified by the formula for the 
secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit 
rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be reset 
every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the rate on 
three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

Voting for these actions:  Chairman Powell, Vice Chairman for Supervision

 Quarles, and Governor Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  FOMC Statement (with attached Implementation Note) and 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, April 27, 2018. 

transmissions from Ms. Shanks to the Reserve Banks, May 2, 
2018. 

Page  3 

