DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Establishment without change by twelve 
Reserve Banks of the existing primary credit rate; renewal by those Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates. 

Approved. 
April 23, 2007. 

The Board approved the establishment without change of the rate for discounts 
and advances under the primary credit program (6-1/4 percent) by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, 
Dallas, and San Francisco on April 12, 2007, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of New 
York, Philadelphia, and Minneapolis on April 19.  The Board also approved renewal by 
those Banks, on the dates indicated above, of the formulas for calculating the rates 
applicable to discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit 
programs. 
Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 

Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Mishkin. 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, April 20, 2007. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, April 23, 2007. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Establishment without change by twelve 
Reserve Banks of the existing primary credit rate. 

Existing rate maintained. 
May 7, 2007. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco had voted on April 26, 2007, and the 
directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and 
Dallas had voted on May 3 to reestablish the existing rate for discounts and advances 
(6-1/4 percent) under the primary credit program (primary credit rate). 

Although directors noted rather weak GDP growth in the first quarter, most 

expected the overall economy to resume moderate expansion over the balance of the 
year as the contraction of housing activity abated.  Several directors considered tight 
conditions in the labor market to represent an upside risk to expectations that core 
inflation would drift down over the remainder of the year.  Others viewed risks to growth 

and inflation to be about evenly balanced.  Directors generally agreed that the best 
course was to maintain the current stance of monetary policy for now while keeping a 
close watch on incoming data for areas with the greatest potential risks. 

 2 

At today's meeting, no sentiment was expressed in favor of considering the 

primary credit rate before the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee later this 
week, and the existing rate was maintained. 
Participating in this determination:  Chairman Bernanke and Governors Warsh, 

Kroszner, and Mishkin. 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, May 4, 2007. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, May 7, 2007. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by twelve Reserve Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates. 

Approved. 
May 7, 2007. 

The Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 

Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco on 
April 26, 2007, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, 
Minneapolis, and Dallas on May 3 of the formulas for calculating the rates applicable to 
discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit programs. 
Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke and Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and 

Mishkin. 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, May 4, 2007. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, May 7, 2007. 

