DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Establishment without change by twelve 
Reserve Banks of the existing primary credit rate; renewal by those Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates. 

Approved. 
January 9, 2006. 

The Board approved the establishment without change of the rate for discounts 
and advances under the primary credit program (5-1/4 percent) by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Minneapolis and Kansas City on December 29, 2005, and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, 
Chicago, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco on January 5, 2006.  The Board also 
approved renewal by those Banks, on the dates indicated above, of the formulas for 
calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under the secondary and 
seasonal credit programs. 
Voting for this action:  Chairman Greenspan and Governors Bies, Olson, and 

Kohn. 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 6, 2006. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, January 9, 2006. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by eleven Reserve Banks to 
increase the primary credit rate; request by one Reserve Bank to maintain the 
existing rate. 

Existing rate maintained. 
January 30, 2006. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of New York and Philadelphia had voted on January 19, 
2006, the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas had voted on January 25, and 
the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, 
Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco had voted on January 26 to 
establish a rate for discounts and advances under the primary credit program (primary 
credit rate) of 5-1/2 percent (an increase from 5-1/4 percent).  The directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis had voted on January 19 to maintain the existing 
rate. 

Directors in favor of increasing the primary credit rate generally viewed the 

economy as expanding at a satisfactory pace without generating an increase in 
inflationary pressures.  They supported another increase in rates as insurance against 

upside risks to inflation.  Directors in favor of maintaining the primary credit rate did not 
consider the case for an increase compelling at this point, although they noted that it 
was a close call. 

 2 

Today, Board members considered the primary credit rate and discussed, on a 
preliminary basis, their individual assessments of appropriate monetary policy and its 
communication, which would be the principal subjects of the meeting of the Federal 
Open Market Committee tomorrow.  Against the background of recent and prospective 
economic developments, Board members tentatively favored a further step in the 
process of monetary policy firming and discussed possible modifications to the 
description of the process.  No sentiment was expressed for changing the primary credit 
rate before the Committee's meeting, and the existing rate was maintained. 
Participating in this determination:  Chairman Greenspan, Vice Chairman 

Ferguson, and Governors Bies, Olson, and Kohn. 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 27, 2006. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, January 30, 2006. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by twelve Reserve Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates. 

Approved. 
January 30, 2006. 

The Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, 

Philadelphia, and Minneapolis on January 19, 2006, by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dallas on January 25, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Cleveland, 
Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco on January 26 
of the formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under the 
secondary and seasonal credit programs. 
Voting for this action:  Chairman Greenspan, Vice Chairman Ferguson, and 

Governors Bies, Olson, and Kohn. 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 27, 2006. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, January 30, 2006. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Increase in the primary credit rate from 
5-1/4 percent to 5-1/2 percent. 

 3 

Approved. 
January 31, 2006. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of New York and Philadelphia had voted on January 19, 
2006, the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas had voted on January 25, and 
the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, 
Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco had voted on January 26 to 
establish a rate for discounts and advances under the primary credit program (primary 
credit rate) of 5-1/2 percent (an increase from 5-1/4 percent).  The directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis had voted on January 19 to maintain the existing 
rate.  At its meeting of January 30, the Board had considered, but had taken no action 
on, the requests to increase the primary credit rate. 

At today's meeting, there was a consensus for a 25-basis-point increase, 

and the Board approved an increase in the primary credit rate from 5-1/4 percent to 
5-1/2 percent, effective immediately for the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New 
York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and 
San Francisco, and effective February 1 for the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.  At 
an earlier meeting today, the Federal Open Market Committee had decided to increase 
its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 4-1/2 percent.  It was 
understood that a press release announcing the increases in the two rates would be 
issued. 

In addition, the Secretary was authorized to inform the Federal Reserve Bank of 

Minneapolis, on its establishment of a primary credit rate of 5-1/2 percent, of the 
Board's approval.  (NOTE:  Subsequently, the Reserve Bank established that rate and 
was informed of the Board's approval, effective February 2.) 
Voting for this action:  Chairman Greenspan, Vice Chairman Ferguson, and 

Background: 
Implementation: 

Governors Bies, Olson, and Kohn. 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 27, 2006. 
Press releases, January 31 and February 3, and wires from 
Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, January 31 and February 2, 
and Federal Register document, February 2, 2006. 

