DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Establishment without change by  twelve 
Reserve Banks of the existing primary credit rate; renewal by those Banks of  the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates and of  the 
auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction Facility. 

Approved. 
May 19, 2008. 

The Board approved the establishment without change of the rate for discounts 

and advances under the primary credit program (2-1/4 percent) by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Dallas, and San 
Francisco on May 8, 2008, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, 
Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and Kansas City on May 15.  The Board also approved 
renewal by those Banks, on the dates indicated above, of the formulas for calculating 
the rates applicable to discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal 
credit programs and renewal of the auction procedure for determining the rate for the 
Term Auction Facility. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 

Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Mishkin. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, May 19, 2008. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, May 16, 2008. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by two Reserve Banks to  increase 
the primary credit rate; requests by ten Reserve Banks to maintain the existing 
rate. 

Existing rate maintained. 
June 23, 2008. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City had voted on June 12, 2008, and the 
directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas had voted on June 19 to establish a 
rate for discounts and advances under the primary credit program (primary credit rate) 
of 2-1/2 percent (an increase from 2-1/4 percent).  The directors of the Federal Reserve 

Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and 
San Francisco had voted on June 12 and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
New York and Philadelphia had voted on June 19 to maintain the existing rate. 

Federal Reserve Bank directors in favor of maintaining the existing primary credit 

rate noted that the near-term outlook had both upside and downside risks.  They 
expressed concerns about upward pressure on inflation and inflation expectations from 
increasing prices for energy and other commodities.  However, directors were also 
concerned about downside risks to the real economy, most notably from adverse 
conditions in the credit markets and a prolonged contraction in the housing sector. 
Given the uncertainty surrounding near-term economic prospects, directors generally 
agreed that the current stance of monetary policy seemed broadly appropriate and that 
a wait-and-see approach to evaluate incoming data was the prudent course for now. 

Federal Reserve Bank directors recommending a 25-basis-point increase in the 

primary credit rate also noted downside risks to the economy but concluded that they 
were outweighed by the upside risk of inflation.  These directors cited the potential for 
rising energy and commodity prices to spread to other prices and wages, and they 
noted some indications of elevated inflation expectations.  Other directors also pointed 
out that the availability of the Federal Reserve's special liquidity facilities had reduced 
somewhat the strains in financial markets.  Under these circumstances, they favored 
reversing some of the monetary policy easing that had been implemented in recent 
months. 

At today's meeting, no sentiment was expressed in favor of considering the 

primary credit rate before tomorrow's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, 
and the existing rate was maintained. 

Participating in this determination:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, 

and Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Mishkin. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, June 23, 2008. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, June 20, 2008. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by twelve Reserve Banks of  the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates and of  the 
auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction Facility. 

Approved. 
June 23, 2008. 

The Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 

Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San 
Francisco on June 12, 2008, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, 
Philadelphia, and Dallas on June 19 of the formulas for calculating the rates applicable 
to discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit programs and 
renewal of the auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction Facility. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 

Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Mishkin. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, June 23, 2008. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, June 20, 2008. 

