DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by nine Reserve Banks to maintain 
the existing primary credit rate and requests by three Reserve Banks to increase 
the rate; requests to renew the secondary and seasonal credit formulas. 

Existing rate and formulas approved. 
December 10, 2018. 

Today, Board members discussed economic and financial developments and 

issues related to possible policy actions.  In connection with this discussion, Board 
members considered discounts and advances under the primary credit program (the 
primary credit rate) and discussed, on a preliminary basis, their individual assessments 
of the appropriate rate and its communication, which would be discussed at the joint 
meeting of the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) next week. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas had voted on 
November 29, 2018, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, 
Philadelphia, Cleveland, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco had voted on 
December 6, to establish the primary credit rate at the existing level (2.75 percent).  The 
directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Richmond, and Chicago had voted 
on December 6 to establish a rate of 3 percent (an increase from 2.75 percent). 

Overall, Federal Reserve Bank directors reported mostly strong economic 

conditions in various sectors across their Districts.  Labor markets remained strong, and 
directors noted that businesses in their Districts reported continued difficulties in filling a 
broad range of low- and high-skilled positions.  Several directors also cited heightened 
wage pressures.  Most directors commented that downside risks to the economic 
outlook had increased somewhat, primarily reflecting increased uncertainty about trade 
policy and international developments.  Inflation remained at or near the FOMC's 
2 percent objective. 

The directors of nine Reserve Banks judged that establishing the primary credit 
rate at the current level of 2.75 percent was appropriate for now.  The directors of three 
Reserve Banks judged that it would be appropriate to raise the primary credit rate to 
3 percent, in light of the outlook for continued above-trend economic growth, further 
tightening of labor markets, and inflation remaining near the FOMC's 2 percent 
objective. 

No sentiment was expressed by the Board at today's meeting for changing the 

primary credit rate at this time, and the Board approved the establishment of the primary 

Page  1 

credit rate at the existing level of 2.75 percent.  (NOTE:  At the joint Board-FOMC 
meeting on November 8, 2018, the Board had approved the establishment of the 
primary credit rate at 2.75 percent.) 

The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of the 
existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under 
the secondary and seasonal credit programs.  As specified by the formula for the 
secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit 
rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be reset 
every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the rate on 
three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Powell, Vice Chairman Clarida,

 Vice Chairman for Supervision Quarles,
 and Governors Brainard and Bowman. 

Background: 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, December 7, 2018. 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, 

December 10, 2018. 

MONETARY POLICY IMPLEMENTATION -- Increase in the interest rate on reserve 
balances and in the primary credit rate; renewal of secondary and seasonal credit 
formulas. 

Approved. 
December 19, 2018. 

In a joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and the Board 
today, the FOMC decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 basis 
points, to 2-1/4 to 2-1/2 percent, effective December 20, 2018.  To support the 
Committee's decision to raise the target range for the federal funds rate, the Board 
approved raising the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances from 
2.20 percent to 2.40 percent, effective December 20, 2018. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
six Federal Reserve Banks had voted to establish an increase in the rate for discounts 
and advances under the primary credit program (the primary credit rate).  The directors 
of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Richmond, and Chicago had voted on 
December 6, 2018, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, 
Atlanta, and San Francisco had voted on December 13, to establish a primary credit 

Page  2 

rate of 3 percent (an increase from 2.75 percent).  The directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Kansas City and Dallas had voted on December 13 to establish the primary 
credit rate at the existing level of 2.75 percent.  (NOTE:  At its meeting on December 10, 
2018, the Board had approved the establishment of the primary credit rate at 
2.75 percent.) 

At today's meeting, there was consensus for a 25-basis-point increase, and the 
Board approved an increase in the primary credit rate from 2.75 percent to 3 percent, 
effective December 20, 2018, for the six Reserve Banks that had voted for such an 
increase.  The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of 
the existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances 
under the secondary and seasonal credit programs.  As specified by the formula for the 
secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit 
rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would continue to 
be reset every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the 
rate on three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis 
points. 

It was understood that a press release and an accompanying document on 
monetary policy implementation would be issued to announce the increases in the 
interest rate on reserve balances and the primary credit rate.  In addition, the Secretary 
was authorized to inform the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, 
St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas, on their establishment of a primary 
credit rate of 3 percent, of the Board's approval and determination, effective on the later 
of December 20, 2018, or the date the Reserve Bank informed the Secretary of its 
request.  (NOTE:  Subsequently, the Secretary informed the New York, Philadelphia, 
St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Reserve Banks of the Board's approval 
of their establishment of a primary credit rate of 3 percent, effective December 20, 
2018.) 

Voting for these actions:  Chairman Powell, Vice Chairman Clarida,

 Vice Chairman for Supervision Quarles,
 and Governors Brainard and Bowman. 

Background: 
Implementation:  FOMC Statement (with attached Implementation Note), 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, December 14, 2018. 

December 19; press releases, December 19 and 20; transmissions 
from Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, December 19 and 20; and 
Federal Register documents, December 19, 2018. 

Page  3 

