DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Reduction in the primary credit rate from 
4-3/4 percent to 4 percent. 

Approved. 
January 21, 2008. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago and Minneapolis had voted on January 17, 
2008, to establish a rate for discounts and advances under the primary credit program 
(primary credit rate) of 4 percent (a reduction from 4-3/4 percent).  The directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and Cleveland had voted on January 10 and the 
directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York and Philadelphia had voted on 
January 17 to establish a primary credit rate of 4-1/4 percent.  The directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond and Dallas had voted on January 10 to establish a 
primary credit rate of 4-1/2 percent.  The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco had voted on January 10 to maintain 
the existing rate. 

Federal Reserve Bank directors in favor of a 75-basis-point reduction cited 

weakening economic activity and an appreciable increase in downside risks to the near-
term outlook for growth.  Some directors noted that recent reports on various indicators 
of economic growth, including employment, manufacturing, housing, and consumer 
spending, had been negative.  Although directors considered inflation, which recently 
had been somewhat elevated, to be a concern, they judged that the risks to prospects 
for the real economy were larger.  They agreed that current economic conditions 
warranted a sizable reduction in the primary credit rate. 

Federal Reserve Bank directors in favor of reducing the primary credit rate by 

50 basis points also cited indications of weakening growth and expressed concern 
about prospects for real activity.  They emphasized the need to ease the stance of 
monetary policy quickly to mitigate the risk of a longer-term, broad-based slowdown in 
economic activity.  Overall, the directors considered downside risks to economic growth 
to outweigh concerns about the upside risks to inflation.  In their view, an appropriately 
accommodative stance for monetary policy at this time required a 50-basis-point 
reduction in the primary credit rate. 

Other Federal Reserve Bank directors preferred a 25-basis-point reduction in the 
primary credit rate, in large measure because of their substantial uncertainty about the 
outlook for inflation as well as real economic activity. 

Federal Reserve Bank directors in favor of maintaining the existing primary credit 

rate generally agreed with concerns about elevated risks in the outlook for economic 
growth and inflation.  They preferred, however, to review additional data before 
considering a rate reduction. 

At today's meeting, there was a consensus for a 75-basis-point reduction, and 

the Board approved a reduction in the primary credit rate from 4-3/4 percent to 
4 percent, effective January 22 for the Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago and 
Minneapolis.  Earlier today, the Federal Open Market Committee had decided to lower 
its target for the federal funds rate by 75 basis points to 3-1/2 percent, also effective 
January 22.  It was understood that a press release announcing the reductions in the 
two rates would be issued. 

In addition, the Secretary was authorized to inform the remaining Reserve Banks, 

on their establishment of a primary credit rate of 4 percent, of the Board's approval. 
(NOTE:  Subsequently, the remaining Reserve Banks established that rate and were 
informed of the Board's approval, effective January 22 for the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Dallas, and San Francisco, 
effective January 23 for the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, and effective 
January 24 for the Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta and Kansas City.) 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 

Governors Warsh and Kroszner. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Press releases and wires from Mr. Frierson and Ms. Johnson to the 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 18, 2008. 

Reserve Banks, January 22 and 24, and Federal Register 
document, January 25, 2008. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by twelve Reserve Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates and of the 
auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction Facility. 

Approved. 
January 21, 2008. 

Effective January 22, 2008, the Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San 
Francisco on January 10, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, 

Chicago, and Minneapolis on January 17 of the formulas for calculating the rates 
applicable to discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit 
programs and renewal of the auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term 
Auction Facility. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 

Governors Warsh and Kroszner. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Wire from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, January 22, 2008. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 18, 2008. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by nine Reserve Banks to lower 
the primary credit rate; requests by two Reserve Banks to maintain the existing 
rate. 

Existing rate maintained. 
January 28, 2008. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York had voted on January 23, 2008, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, St. Louis, 
Kansas City, and San Francisco had voted on January 24, and the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had voted on January 25 to establish a rate for 
discounts and advances under the primary credit program (primary credit rate) of 
3-1/2 percent (a reduction from 4 percent).  The directors of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Richmond had voted on January 22 and the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dallas had voted on January 24 to maintain the existing rate. 

Federal Reserve Bank directors in favor of a 50-basis-point reduction in the 

primary credit rate generally agreed that continued deterioration in financial markets and 
weakened economic conditions in housing and labor markets had considerably 
worsened the economic outlook.  They viewed these circumstances as raising downside 
risks for economic growth.  Directors concluded that a more accommodative stance for 
monetary policy in the near term would provide additional insurance against a 
protracted slowdown in economic activity.  Some directors noted, however, that the 
duration of such an accommodative stance should be considered carefully in view of 
continuing upside risks to inflation. 

Federal Reserve Bank directors in favor of maintaining the current primary credit 

rate noted the 75-basis-point reduction in the rate last week and preferred to take no 
further action without new information. 

At today's meeting, no sentiment was expressed in favor of considering the 

primary credit rate before tomorrow's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, 
and the existing rate was maintained. 

Participating in this determination:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, 

and Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Mishkin. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, January 28, 2008. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 25, 2008. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by eleven Reserve Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates and of the 
auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction Facility. 

Approved. 
January 28, 2008. 

The Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond on 
January 22, 2008, by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on January 23, by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas 
City, Dallas, and San Francisco on January 24, and by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago on January 25 of the formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts 
and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit programs and renewal of the 
auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction Facility. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 

Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Mishkin. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, January 28, 2008. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 25, 2008. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Reduction in the primary credit rate from 
4 percent to 3-1/2 percent. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York had voted on January 23, 2008, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, St. Louis, 
Kansas City, and San Francisco had voted on January 24, and the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had voted on January 25 to establish a rate for 
discounts and advances under the primary credit program (primary credit rate) of 
3-1/2 percent (a reduction from 4 percent).  The directors of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Richmond had voted on January 22 and the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dallas had voted on January 24 to maintain the existing rate.  At its meeting on 
January 28, the Board had taken no action on the requests to lower the primary credit 
rate. 

At today's meeting, there was a consensus for a 50-basis-point reduction, and 

the Board approved a reduction in the primary credit rate from 4 percent to 
3-1/2 percent, effective immediately for the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New 
York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco and 
effective January 31 for the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.  Earlier today, the 
Federal Open Market Committee had decided to lower its target for the federal funds 
rate by 50 basis points to 3 percent.  It was understood that a press release announcing 
the reductions in the two rates would be issued. 

In addition, the Secretary was authorized to inform the remaining Reserve Banks, 
on their establishment of a primary credit rate of 3-1/2 percent, of the Board's approval. 
(NOTE:  Subsequently, the Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond, Minneapolis, and 
Dallas established that rate and were informed of the Board's approval, effective 
January 31.) 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 

Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Mishkin. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Press releases and wires from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 25, 2008. 

January 30 and 31, and Federal Register document, February 4, 
2008. 

