DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by ten Reserve Banks to maintain 
the existing rate; request by one Reserve Bank to decrease the primary credit 
rate; and request by one Reserve Bank to increase the primary credit rate. 

Existing rate maintained. 
January 23, 2012. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, Dallas, and San 
Francisco had voted on January 12, 2012, and the directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, and Minneapolis had voted on 
January 19 to reestablish the existing rate for discounts and advances (3/4 percent) 
under the primary credit program (primary credit rate).  The directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston had voted on January 12 to establish a rate of 1/2 percent 
(a decrease from 3/4 percent).  The directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
City had voted on January 12 to establish a rate of 1 percent (an increase from 
3/4 percent).  At its meeting on December 12, the Board had taken no action on similar 
requests by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston to decrease and by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City to increase the primary credit rate. 

Federal Reserve Bank directors noted that recent economic data had improved 

somewhat, but they were cautious about the outlook and expected only moderate 
growth over the coming quarters.  Some directors reported encouraging though uneven 
increases in consumer spending and retail sales, as well as further gains in 
manufacturing activity in certain sectors.  The housing sector remained weak, despite 
pockets of increased activity in some parts of the country.  Although conditions in labor 
markets had shown some signs of improvement, directors remained concerned about 
the elevated rate of unemployment.  Many directors also cited the downside risks posed 
by ongoing uncertainty about global financial markets and U.S. regulatory and fiscal 
policies.  Inflationary pressures had continued to moderate, and longer-term inflation 
expectations had remained stable.  Against this backdrop, most directors recommended 
that the current primary credit rate be maintained. 

However, other Federal Reserve Bank directors favored changing the primary 
credit rate.  On the one hand, some directors supported decreasing the primary credit 
rate by 25 basis points (to 1/2 percent), in part as a technical adjustment to better align 
the rate with the reduced charges on the Federal Reserve's dollar liquidity swap 
arrangements with major foreign central banks.  On the other hand, some directors 
supported increasing the primary credit rate by 25 basis points (to 1 percent), and the 

Page  1 

spread between that rate and the upper end of the target range for the federal funds 
rate to 75 basis points, partly as a move toward restoring the 100-basis-point spread in 
the pre-crisis discount rate structure.  Directors also pointed to current and anticipated 
economic conditions as reasons to decrease or increase the primary credit rate. 

Today, Board members considered the primary credit rate and discussed, on a 

preliminary basis, their individual assessments of the appropriate rate and its 
communication, which would be discussed at the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee this week.  No sentiment was expressed for changing the primary credit rate 
before the Committee's meeting, and the existing rate was maintained. 

Participating in this determination:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chair Yellen, and 

Governors Duke, Tarullo, and Raskin. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 20, 2012. 
Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, 

January 23, 2012. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by twelve Reserve Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates. 

Approved. 
January 23, 2012. 

The Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 

Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco on January 12, 
2012, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, 
and Minneapolis on January 19 of the formulas for calculating the rates applicable to 
discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit programs. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chair Yellen, and 

Governors Duke, Tarullo, and Raskin. 

Background: 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 20, 2012. 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, 

January 23, 2012. 

Page  2 

