DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by eleven Reserve Banks to 
maintain the existing primary credit rate and request by one Reserve Bank to 
increase the rate; requests to renew the secondary and seasonal credit formulas. 

Existing rate and formulas approved. 
January 22, 2018. 

Today, Board members discussed economic and financial developments and 

issues related to possible policy actions.  In connection with this discussion, Board 
members considered discounts and advances under the primary credit program (the 
primary credit rate) and discussed, on a preliminary basis, their individual assessments 
of the appropriate rate and its communication, which would be discussed at the joint 
meeting of the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) next week. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and 
San Francisco had voted on January 11, 2018, and the directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Philadelphia, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City had voted on 
January 18, to establish the primary credit rate at the existing level (2 percent).  The 
directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas had voted on January 11 to establish a 
rate of 2-1/4 percent (an increase from 2 percent). 

Federal Reserve Bank directors noted favorable economic conditions across 

various sectors and were optimistic about the prospects for continued economic growth. 
Several directors observed positive trends in housing and manufacturing.  In addition, 
some directors reported growth in consumer spending, particularly for online purchases. 
Many directors commented on recently enacted tax legislation.  While directors were 
cautiously optimistic about the likely economic effects on particular sectors, they also 
expressed uncertainty in judging the full effect of the tax cuts at this early date.  In 
several Districts, directors noted further tightening in labor markets and the ongoing 
challenge of finding skilled workers to fill jobs in certain industries. Inflation remained 
somewhat below the FOMC's 2 percent objective. 

The directors of eleven Reserve Banks favored establishing the primary credit 

rate at the current level of 2 percent.  These directors judged that it would be 
appropriate to maintain the current level of short-term interest rates and assess whether 
incoming data support the outlook for continued moderate economic growth, further 
strengthening in labor markets, and a gradual return of inflation to 2 percent over the 
medium term.  The directors of one Reserve Bank favored increasing the primary credit 

Page  1 

rate to 2-1/4 percent.  These directors judged that an increase in short-term interest 
rates was warranted in light of solid economic growth, tight labor-market conditions, and 
an expected rise in inflation toward 2 percent. 

No sentiment was expressed by the Board at today's meeting for changing the 

primary credit rate at this time, and the Board approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at the existing level of 2 percent.  (NOTE:  At the joint Board-FOMC meeting 
on December 13, 2017, the Board had approved the establishment of the primary credit 
rate at 2 percent, an increase from 1-3/4 percent.) 

The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of the 
existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under 
the secondary and seasonal credit programs.  As specified by the formula for the 
secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit 
rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be reset 
every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the rate on 
three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

Voting for this action:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman for Supervision Quarles,

 and Governors Powell and Brainard. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 19, 2018. 
Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, 

January 22, 2018. 

MONETARY POLICY IMPLEMENTATION -- Rates on reserve balances and on 
discounts and advances unchanged. 

Approved. 
January 31, 2018. 

In a joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and the Board 

today, the FOMC decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 
1-1/4 to 1-1/2 percent.  Consistent with the FOMC's decision to leave the target range 
for the federal funds rate unchanged, the Board approved maintaining the existing 
interest rates (1-1/2 percent) paid on required and excess reserve balances.  At today's 
meeting, the Board also approved the establishment of the interest rate on discounts 
and advances made under the primary credit program (the primary credit rate) at the 
existing level (2 percent). 

Page  2 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, 
Chicago, and San Francisco had voted on January 25, 2018, to establish the primary 
credit rate at the existing level (2 percent).  The directors of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Dallas had voted on January 25 to establish a rate of 2-1/4 percent (an increase from 
2 percent).  (NOTE:  At its meeting on January 22, 2018, the Board had taken no action 
on a request by the Dallas Reserve Bank to increase the primary credit rate.) 

The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of the 
existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under 
the secondary and seasonal credit programs.  As specified by the formula for the 
secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit 
rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be reset 
every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the rate on 
three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis points. 

Voting for these actions:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman for Supervision Quarles,

 and Governors Powell and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  FOMC Statement (with attached Implementation Note) and 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 26, 2018. 

transmissions from Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, 
January 31, 2018. 

Page  3 

