DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by ten Reserve Banks to maintain 
the existing rate; requests by two Reserve Banks to increase the primary credit 
rate. 

Existing rate maintained. 
January 25, 2010. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Dallas, and San Francisco 
had voted on January 14, 2010, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New 
York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, and Minneapolis had voted on January 21 to 
reestablish the existing rate for discounts and advances (1/2 percent) under the primary 
credit program (primary credit rate). The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
St. Louis and Kansas City had voted on January 14 to establish a rate of 3/4 percent 
(an increase from 1/2 percent). 

Federal Reserve Bank directors noted positive developments that included gains 

in real activity as well as further improvements in financial markets.  Nonetheless, 
overall economic activity remained weak, with substantial slack in resource utilization. 
Directors also expected that ongoing constraints in the availability of credit to smaller 
businesses and households, a higher household saving rate, and weak conditions in 
labor markets were likely to restrain household income and outlays for a time.  Given 
the outlook for a gradual recovery and persistent downside risks, and with inflation and 
inflation expectations moderate and stable, directors generally agreed that the current 
accommodative stance of monetary policy remained appropriate.  In light of improving 
conditions in financial markets, some Federal Reserve Bank directors indicated that 
they favored increasing the primary credit rate by 25 basis points in order to begin to 
restore a more normal discount rate structure.  The proposed increase would widen the 
spread between the primary credit rate and the upper end of the Federal Open Market 
Committee's target range for the federal funds rate to 50 basis points.  Before the 
financial crisis, the spread between the primary credit rate and the Committee's target 
federal funds rate was 100 basis points.  Thus, the widening of the spread would be a 
move toward normalization of the spread, consistent with other steps being taken by the 
Federal Reserve to normalize its lending programs as financial conditions improved. 

Today, Board members considered the primary credit rate and discussed, on a 

preliminary basis, their individual assessments of the appropriate rate and its 
communication, which would be discussed at the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee this week.  No sentiment was expressed for changing the primary credit rate 
before the Committee's meeting, and the existing rate was maintained. 

Page  1 

Participating in this determination:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, 

and Governors Warsh, Duke, and Tarullo. 

Background:	 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 22, 2010. 
Implementation:	  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, 

January 25, 2010. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by twelve Reserve Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates; renewal by 
those Banks of the auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term 
Auction Facility; and renewal by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York of the 
formulas for calculating the rates for the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan 
Facility. 

Approved. 
January 25, 2010. 

The Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 

Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco on January 14, 
2010, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, 
and Minneapolis on January 21 of the formulas for calculating the rates applicable to 
discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit programs and of the 
auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction Facility.  In addition, the 
Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on January 21 of 
the formulas for calculating the rates for the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan 
Facility. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 

Governors Warsh, Duke, and Tarullo. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 22, 2010. 

Background:	 
Implementation:	  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, and 
transmission from Ms. Beattie to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York, January 25, 2010. 

Page  2 

