DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Establishment without change by twelve 
Reserve Banks of the existing primary credit rate. 

Existing rate maintained. 
January 26, 2009. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Minneapolis, and Kansas City had voted on 
January 15, 2009, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Dallas, and 
San Francisco had voted on January 22 to reestablish the existing rate for discounts 
and advances (1/2 percent) under the primary credit program (primary credit rate). 

Federal Reserve Bank directors generally agreed that economic conditions had 

weakened further.  Some directors commented that heightened uncertainty over the 
economic outlook, asset prices, and government efforts to provide liquidity and 
strengthen financial institutions was adversely affecting financial markets and 
households' and businesses' spending decisions.  Others noted that a credit crunch was 
restraining economic activity.  Most directors viewed inflationary pressures as subsiding 
in response to falling commodity prices and increased economic slack.  With credit 
conditions in financial markets remaining tight and given the weak economic outlook 
and the downside risks to that outlook, the directors concluded that very low short-term 
interest rates remained appropriate.  Accordingly, they recommended maintaining the 
existing primary credit rate. 

Today, Board members considered the primary credit rate and discussed, on a 

preliminary basis, their individual assessments of the appropriate rate and its 
communication, which would be discussed at the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee this week.  No sentiment was expressed for changing the primary credit rate 
before the Committee's meeting, and the existing rate was maintained. 

Participating in this determination:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, 

and Governors Warsh and Duke. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 23, 2009. 
Background:	 
Implementation:	  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, 

January 26, 2009. 

Page  1 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by twelve Reserve Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates and of the 
auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction Facility. 

Approved. 
January 26, 2009. 

The Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, 

Minneapolis, and Kansas City on January 15, 2009, and by the Federal Reserve Banks 
of Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Dallas, and 
San Francisco on January 22 of the formulas for calculating the rates applicable to 
discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit programs and 
renewal of the auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction Facility. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and

 Governors Warsh and Duke. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 23, 2009. 
Background:	 
Implementation:	  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, 

January 26, 2009. 

Page  2 

