DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Establishment without change by twelve 
Reserve Banks of the existing primary credit rate; renewal by those Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates and of the 
auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction Facility; and 
renewal by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York of the formulas for calculating 
the rates for the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility. 

Approved. 
April 6, 2009. 

The Board approved the establishment without change of the rate for discounts 
and advances under the primary credit program (1/2 percent) by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco on 
March 26, 2009, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, 
Richmond, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas on April 2.  The Board also approved 
renewal by those Banks, on the dates indicated above, of the formulas for calculating 
the rates applicable to discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal 
credit programs and of the auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term 
Auction Facility.  In addition, the Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York on April 2 of the formulas for calculating the rates for the Term Asset-
Backed Securities Loan Facility. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 

Governors Warsh, Duke, and Tarullo. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, April 3, 2009. 

and transmission from Ms. Beattie to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, April 6, 2009. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Establishment without change by twelve 
Reserve Banks of the existing primary credit rate. 

Existing rate maintained. 
April 27, 2009. 

Page  1 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City had 
voted on April 16, 2009, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco had 
voted on April 23 to reestablish the existing rate for discounts and advances 
(1/2 percent) under the primary credit program (primary credit rate). 

Federal Reserve Bank directors expressed continued concern about the 

economic outlook.  The economy appeared to be still contracting, and some directors 
noted particular concern about the implications of weakness in the labor market.  Their 
concerns were tempered to a small extent by incipient signs that the contraction in the 
economy could be slowing.  Other directors believed that activity in some sectors --
household spending in particular -- could be stabilizing, albeit at low levels.  Most 
directors viewed inflation as stable at a low rate for now.  The directors generally agreed 
on the need for continued monetary stimulus in order to promote a return of economic 
activity to its potential over a reasonable time horizon, and to this end, they 
recommended maintaining the current primary credit rate. 

Today, Board members considered the primary credit rate in light of this week's 

meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee.  No sentiment was expressed for 
changing the primary credit rate before the Committee's meeting, and the existing rate 
was maintained. 

Participating in this determination:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, 

and Governors Warsh, Duke, and Tarullo. 

Background:	 
Implementation:	  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, April 24, 2009. 

April 27, 2009. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by twelve Reserve Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates and of the 
auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction Facility. 

Approved. 
April 27, 2009. 

The Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, 


Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City on April 16, 2009, and by the Federal Reserve 

Page  2 

Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Dallas, and 
San Francisco on April 23 of the formulas for calculating the rates applicable to 
discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit programs and of the 
auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction Facility. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 

Governors Warsh, Duke, and Tarullo. 

Background:	 
Implementation:	  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, April 24, 2009. 

April 27, 2009. 

Page  3 

