DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by three Reserve Banks to 
maintain the existing rate and requests by nine Reserve Banks to increase the 
primary credit rate. 

Existing rate maintained. 
November 14, 2016. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Chicago, and Minneapolis had voted on 
November 3, 2016, to reestablish the existing rate for discounts and advances 
(1 percent) under the primary credit program (primary credit rate).  The directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Richmond, and St. Louis had voted on 
November 3, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Cleveland, 
Atlanta, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco had voted on November 10, to 
establish a rate of 1-1/4 percent (an increase from 1 percent).  At its meeting on 
October 31, the Board had taken no action on similar requests by the Boston, 
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San 
Francisco Reserve Banks to increase the primary credit rate. 

At today's meeting, no sentiment was expressed for changing the primary credit 

rate, and the existing rate was maintained. 

Participating in this determination:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governors Tarullo, Powell, and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, November 10, 2016. 

November 14, 2016. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by twelve Reserve Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates. 

Formulas renewed. 
November 14, 2016. 

Page  1 

The formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances 

under the secondary and seasonal credit programs were renewed by the Board for the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, and 
Minneapolis on November 3, 2016, and for the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 
Cleveland, Atlanta, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco on November 10. 

Participating in this determination:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governors Tarullo, Powell, and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, November 10, 2016. 

November 14, 2016. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Request by one Reserve Bank to maintain 
the existing rate and requests by eleven Reserve Banks to increase the primary 
credit rate. 

Existing rate maintained. 
December 12, 2016. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis had voted on December 1, 2016, to 
reestablish the existing rate for discounts and advances (1 percent) under the primary 
credit program (primary credit rate).  The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, and St. Louis had voted on December 1, and 
the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas 
City, Dallas, and San Francisco had voted on December 8, to establish a rate of 
1-1/4 percent (an increase from 1 percent).  At its meeting on November 14, the Board 
had taken no action on requests by the Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, 
Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Reserve Banks to increase 
the primary credit rate. 

Overall, Federal Reserve Bank directors noted further improvements in economic 
activity and labor market conditions, consistent with an economy growing at a moderate 
pace.  Although reports varied somewhat across Districts, many directors commented 
on strong consumer spending at the start of the holiday season, particularly for online 
shopping.  Several directors said manufacturing activity had picked up in certain 
industries.  Some directors reported steady growth in residential real estate markets but 

 

Page  2 

also noted that residential construction had been constrained by recent shortages in 
materials and labor.  Most directors continued to observe positive developments in labor 
markets.  Although many directors noted additional labor-market tightening in their 
Districts, especially for skilled positions and in certain locations, overall wage growth 
remained relatively subdued.  A number of directors noted the potential for significant 
changes in government policies, including the possibility of expansionary fiscal 
measures.  Inflation remained below the Federal Reserve's 2 percent objective. 

Against this backdrop, the directors of eleven Federal Reserve Banks 

recommended increasing the primary credit rate to 1-1/4 percent, in light of actual and 
expected strengthening in economic activity and labor markets and signs that these 
conditions are fostering a gradual return of inflation to 2 percent over the medium term. 
The directors of one Reserve Bank recommended that the primary credit rate be 
maintained at its current level of 1 percent.  These directors concluded that it would be 
appropriate to maintain an accommodative stance of monetary policy to support 
continued strengthening of the labor market and the return of inflation to the Federal 
Reserve's 2 percent objective. 

Today, Board members considered the primary credit rate and discussed, on a 

preliminary basis, their individual assessments of the appropriate rate and its 
communication, which would be discussed at the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee this week.  No sentiment was expressed for changing the primary credit rate 
before the Committee's meeting, and the existing rate was maintained.  Thereafter, a 
discussion of economic and financial developments and issues related to possible 
policy actions took place. 

Participating in this determination:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governors Tarullo, Powell, and Brainard. 

Background: 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, December 9, 2016. 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Shanks to the Reserve Banks, 

December 12, 2016. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by twelve Reserve Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates. 

Formulas renewed. 
December 12, 2016. 

Page  3 

The formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances 

under the secondary and seasonal credit programs were renewed by the Board for the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, St. Louis, and 
Minneapolis on December 1, 2016, and for the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, 
Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco on December 8. 

Participating in this determination:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governors Tarullo, Powell, and Brainard. 

Background: 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, December 9, 2016. 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Shanks to the Reserve Banks, 

December 12, 2016. 

MONETARY POLICY IMPLEMENTATION -- Increase in the interest rate on reserve 
balances; increase in discount and advance rates. 

Approved. 
December 14, 2016. 

In a joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee and the Board today, 
the Committee decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 basis 
points, to 1/2 percent to 3/4 percent, effective December 15, 2016.  To support the 
Committee's decision to raise the target range for the federal funds rate, the Board 
approved raising the interest rates paid on required and excess reserve balances from 
1/2 percent to 3/4 percent, effective December 15, 2016. 

The Board also acted on requests by eleven Reserve Banks to increase the rate 

for discounts and advances under the primary credit program (primary credit rate). 
Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, and St. Louis had 
voted on December 1, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, 
Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco had voted on December 8, 
2016, to establish a primary credit rate of 1-1/4 percent (an increase from 1 percent).  At 
its meeting on December 12, the Board had considered, but had taken no action on, the 
requests to increase the primary credit rate.  At today's meeting, there was consensus 
for a 25-basis-point increase, and the Board approved an increase in the primary credit 
rate from 1 percent to 1-1/4 percent, effective December 15, 2016, for the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, 
Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.  This vote of the Board also 
encompassed approval of the renewal by all 12 Reserve Banks of the existing formulas 

Page  4 

for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under the secondary and 
seasonal credit programs.  As specified by the formula for the secondary credit rate, the 
secondary credit rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary credit rate.  And 
as specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, the seasonal credit rate would 
continue to be reset every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds 
rate and the rate on three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 
5 basis points. 

It was understood that a press release and an accompanying document on 
monetary policy implementation would be issued to announce the increases in the 
interest rate on reserve balances and the primary credit rate.  In addition, the Secretary 
was authorized to inform the remaining Reserve Bank, on its establishment of a primary 
credit rate of 1-1/4 percent, of the Board's approval and determination, effective on the 
later of December 15, 2016, and the date the Reserve Bank informed the Secretary of 
its request.  (NOTE:  Subsequently, the Secretary informed the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Minneapolis of the Board's approval of its establishment of a primary credit rate of 
1-1/4 percent, effective December 15, 2016.) 

Voting for these actions:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governors Tarullo, Powell, and Brainard. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, December 9, 2016. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Press release with attached Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy 
Implementation, December 14; press release, December 15; and 
transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, 
December 14 and 15, 2016.  (NOTE:  On January 3, 2017, the 
Board approved implementing amendments to Regulations A 
and D.) 

Page  5 

