DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Establishment without change by twelve 
Reserve Banks of the existing primary credit rate; renewal by those Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates. 

Approved. 
May 21, 2007. 

The Board approved the establishment without change of the rate for discounts and 

advances under the primary credit program (6-1/4 percent) by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, 
Dallas, and San Francisco on May 10, 2007, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
New York, Philadelphia, and Minneapolis on May 17.  The Board also approved renewal 
by those Banks, on the dates indicated above, of the formulas for calculating the rates 
applicable to discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit 
programs. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 

Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Mishkin. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, May 21, 2007. 

Office of Secretary memorandum, May 18, 2007. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Establishment without change by twelve 
Reserve Banks of the existing primary credit rate. 

Existing rate maintained. 
June 25, 2007. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of the 

Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, 
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco had voted on June 14, 2007, and the directors 
of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, and Chicago had 
voted on June 21 to reestablish the existing rate for discounts and advances 
(6-1/4 percent) under the primary credit program (primary credit rate). 

Page  1 

Directors by and large expected real GDP growth to pick up to a moderate pace over 
the remainder of the year.  Directors considered it likely that business investment would 
begin to strengthen soon, buoying overall economic growth, but they noted that activity 
in the housing market was continuing to contract and cautioned that the housing sector 
posed a downside risk to economic performance.  Some directors noted that while core 
consumer inflation appeared to have improved in recent months, relatively tight labor 
markets represented an upside risk to their expectation that core inflation would 
moderate over time.  In these circumstances, directors believed that the best course 
was to maintain the current stance of monetary policy and continue to monitor closely 
incoming data. 

At today's meeting, no sentiment was expressed in favor of considering the primary 
credit rate before the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee later this week, 
and the existing rate was maintained. 

Participating in this determination:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, 

and Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Mishkin. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, June 25, 2007. 

Office of Secretary memorandum, June 22, 2007. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by twelve Reserve Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates. 

Approved. 
June 25, 2007. 

The Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, 

Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco on 
June 14, 2007, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, 
and Chicago on June 21 of the formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts 
and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit programs. 

Voting for this action:  Chairman Bernanke, Vice Chairman Kohn, and 

Governors Warsh, Kroszner, and Mishkin. 

Background: 
Implementation: Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, June 25, 2007.

Office of Secretary memorandum, June 22, 2007. 

Page  2 

Implementation:  Wire from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve Banks, June 25, 2007. 

Page  3
 

