DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by twelve Reserve Banks to 
maintain the existing primary credit rate; requests to renew secondary and 
seasonal credit formulas. 

Existing rate and formulas approved. 
August 28, 2017. 

Today, Board members discussed economic and financial developments and 

issues related to possible policy actions.  In connection with this discussion, Board 
members considered discounts and advances under the primary credit program (the 
primary credit rate) and discussed, on a preliminary basis, their individual assessments 
of the appropriate rate and its communication, which would be discussed at the next 
joint meeting of the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta and Kansas City had voted on August 17, 2017, 
and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco 
had voted on August 24, to establish the primary credit rate at the existing level 
(1-3/4 percent). 

No sentiment was expressed by the Board at today's meeting for changing the 

primary credit rate at this time, and the Board approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at the existing level of 1-3/4 percent.  (NOTE:  At the joint Board-FOMC 
meeting on July 26, 2017, the Board had approved the establishment of the primary 
credit rate at the existing level of 1-3/4 percent.) 

The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of the 
existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under 
the secondary and seasonal credit programs for all twelve Reserve Banks.  The 
directors of each Reserve Bank had requested renewal of these formulas on the dates 
previously noted for their votes on the primary credit rate.  As specified by the formula 
for the secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary 
credit rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be 
reset every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the 
rate on three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis 
points. 

Voting for this action:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governor Powell. 

Page  1 

Background: 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, August 25, 2017. 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, 

August 28, 2017. 

MONETARY POLICY IMPLEMENTATION -- Rates on reserve balances and on 
discounts and advances unchanged. 

Approved. 
September 20, 2017. 

In a joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) 

and the Board today, the FOMC decided to maintain the target range for the federal 
funds rate at 1 to 1-1/4 percent.  Consistent with the FOMC's decision to leave the 
target range for the federal funds rate unchanged, the Board approved maintaining the 
existing interest rates (1-1/4 percent) paid on required and excess reserve balances.  At 
today's meeting, the Board also approved the establishment of interest rates on 
discounts and advances made under the primary credit program (the primary credit 
rate) at the existing level (1-3/4 percent). 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 

the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, St. Louis, and 
Minneapolis had voted on September 7, 2017, and the directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco had voted on 
September 14, to establish the primary credit rate at the existing level (1-3/4 percent). 
The directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City had voted on September 14 
to establish a rate of 2 percent (an increase from 1-3/4 percent).  (NOTE:  At its meeting 
on August 28, the Board had approved the establishment of the primary credit rate at 
the existing level (1-3/4 percent) by all twelve Reserve Banks.) 

Overall, Federal Reserve Bank directors remained positive about the prospects 
for economic growth, although their reports on recent activity varied across sectors and 
Districts.  Some directors reported continued strength in commercial and residential real 
estate activity.  Many directors noted the economic hardships and disruptions occurring 
in areas affected by recent hurricanes but did not generally expect a longer-term impact. 
Labor markets remained tight in most Districts, and a number of directors said 
employers were offering training or other incentives to potential employees in an effort 
to address the ongoing shortage of workers for a broad spectrum of positions.  Directors 

Page  2 

generally described wage pressures as moderate, though wages were increasing for 
certain high-demand positions.  Some directors noted that inflation remained somewhat 
below the Federal Reserve's 2 percent objective. 

The directors of eleven Reserve Banks favored establishing the primary credit 
rate at its current level of 1-3/4 percent.  In light of continued low inflation, they judged 
that it would be appropriate to maintain the current stance of monetary policy and to 
assess whether incoming data support the current outlook for continued moderate 
economic growth, some further strengthening in labor market conditions, and a gradual 
return of inflation to 2 percent over the medium term.  The directors of one Reserve 
Bank favored increasing the primary credit rate to 2 percent as an appropriate reflection 
of a growing economy, tight labor markets, and an expected rise in inflation toward 
2 percent. 

The Board's action today on the primary credit rate also included renewal of the 
existing formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under 
the secondary and seasonal credit programs for all twelve Reserve Banks.  The 
directors of each Reserve Bank had requested renewal of these formulas on the dates 
previously noted for their votes on the primary credit rate.  As specified by the formula 
for the secondary credit rate, this rate would be set 50 basis points above the primary 
credit rate.  As specified by the formula for the seasonal credit rate, this rate would be 
reset every two weeks as the average of the daily effective federal funds rate and the 
rate on three-month CDs over the previous 14 days, rounded to the nearest 5 basis 
points. 

Voting for this action:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governors Powell and Brainard. 

Background: 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, September 15, 2017. 
Implementation:  FOMC statement (with attached Implementation Note) and 

transmissions from Ms. Misback to the Reserve Banks, 
September 20, 2017. 

Page  3 

