DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Establishment without change by twelve
Federal Reserve Banks of the primary credit rate, and renewal by those Reserve
Banks of the formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates. 

Existing rate maintained.
Formulas renewed. 
January 25, 2016. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Minneapolis, Kansas City, 
Dallas, and San Francisco had voted on January 14, 2016, and the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Louis had 
voted on January 21, to reestablish the existing rate (1 percent) for discounts and 
advances under the primary credit program (primary credit rate). 

Federal Reserve Bank directors noted that economic performance had been 

mixed across sectors and Districts, while most directors reported ongoing improvements 
in labor markets.  Although economic growth had slowed late last year, several directors 
observed positive developments in certain sectors, including increased housing-sector 
activity.  Reports on consumer spending varied, with some directors observing that auto 
sales and online spending continued to be strong.  Activity in manufacturing, energy, 
and export-related sectors softened further.  Inflation remained below the Federal 
Reserve's 2 percent objective, in part because of further declines in energy prices. 
Directors reported minimal signs of generalized wage pressures, although some 
directors continued to report recruiting difficulties, mostly for highly skilled jobs. 
Directors noted recent global economic and financial developments and their potential 
implications for the economic outlook.  Against this backdrop, directors recommended 
that the current primary credit rate be maintained. 

Today, Board members considered the primary credit rate and discussed, on a 

preliminary basis, their individual assessments of the appropriate rate and its 
communication, which would be discussed at the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee this week.  No sentiment was expressed for changing the primary credit rate 
before the Committee's meeting, and the existing rate was maintained.  Thereafter, a 
discussion of economic and financial developments and issues related to possible 
policy actions took place.  The Board also renewed the formulas for calculating the rates 
applicable to discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit 
programs for the twelve Reserve Banks on the dates indicated above. 

Page  1 

Participating in these determinations:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer,

 and Governors Tarullo and Powell. 

Background: 
Office of the Secretary memorandum, January 22, 2016. 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, 

January 25, 2016. 

Page  2 

