DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE  RATES -  Establishment  without  change by  twelve 
Reserve  Banks  of the existing  primary  credit  rate;  renewal  by those  Banks  of  the 
formulas  for  calculating  the secondary  and seasonal  credit  rates  and  of  the 
auction  procedure for  determining  the rate for  the Term Auction  Facility;  and 
renewal  by the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York  of the formulas  for  calculating 
the rates for  the Term Asset-Backed  Securities  Loan  Facility. 

Approved. 
October  13, 2009. 

The Board approved the establishment without change of the rate for discounts 
and advances under the primary credit program  (1/2 percent) by the Federal  Reserve 
Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and 
Kansas City on October 1, 2009, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 
Cleveland, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco on October 8.  The Board also 
approved renewal by those Banks, on the dates indicated above, of the formulas for 
calculating the rates applicable to discounts and advances under the secondary and 
seasonal credit programs and of the auction procedure for determining the rate for the 
Term Auction Facility.  In addition, the Board approved renewal by the Federal  Reserve 
Bank of New York on October  1 of the formulas for calculating the rates for the Term 
Asset-Backed Securities  Loan Facility. 

Voting for  this  action:  Chairman  Bernanke and  Governors  Warsh, 

Duke, and  Tarullo. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve  Banks, and 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, October 9, 2009. 

transmission from Ms. Hughes to the Federal Reserve  Bank of 
New York, October  13, 2009. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE  RATES -  Establishment  without  change by  twelve 
Reserve  Banks  of the existing  primary  credit  rate. 

Existing  rate maintained. 
November  2, 2009. 

Page  1 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Cleveland, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco 
had voted on October 22, 2009, and the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New 
York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City had 
voted on October 29 to reestablish the existing rate for discounts and advances 
(1/2 percent) under the primary credit program  (primary credit rate). 

Federal Reserve Bank directors noted signs of more positive trends in economic 
activity.  Some directors cited better-than-expected  GDP growth, while others  reported 
that industrial production appeared to have stabilized, albeit at low levels.  Despite 
these encouraging developments,  most directors remained concerned about the 
sustainability of any pickup in economic activity.  For some directors, ongoing job  losses 
and declining sales of automobiles and new homes in September raised the possibility 
of a slowdown in the growth of household spending in the fourth quarter.  Other 
directors noted the absence of evidence that the excess capacity  in the economy was 
likely to shrink in the near future.  Under these circumstances, and with inflation and 
inflation expectations at modest  levels, directors agreed that the current  accommodative 
stance of monetary policy remained appropriate. 

Today,  Board members considered the primary credit rate and discussed, on a 

preliminary  basis, their individual assessments of the appropriate rate and its 
communication, which would be discussed at the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee this week.  No sentiment was expressed for changing the primary credit rate 
before the Committee's meeting, and the existing rate was maintained. 

Participating  in this  determination:  Chairman  Bernanke, Vice Chairman  Kohn, 

and  Governors  Warsh, Duke, and Tarullo. 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, October 30, 2009. 
Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve  Banks, 

November 2, 2009. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE  RATES -  Renewal  by twelve  Reserve  Banks  of  the 
formulas  for  calculating  the secondary  and seasonal  credit  rates;  renewal  by 
those  Banks  of the auction  procedure for  determining  the rate for  the Term 
Auction  Facility;  and  renewal  by the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of  New York  of  the 
formulas  for  calculating  the rates for  the Term Asset-Backed  Securities  Loan 
Facility. 

Approved. 
November  2, 2009. 

Page  2 

The Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 

Cleveland, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco on October 22, 2009, and by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York,  Philadelphia,  Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
Minneapolis, and Kansas City on October 29 of the formulas for calculating the rates 
applicable to discounts and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit 
programs and of the auction procedure for determining the rate for the Term Auction 
Facility.  In addition, the Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York on October 29 of the formulas for calculating the rates for the Term Asset-Backed 
Securities  Loan Facility. 

Voting for  this  action:  Chairman  Bernanke, Vice Chairman  Kohn, and 

Governors  Warsh, Duke, and  Tarullo. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Ms. Johnson to the Reserve  Banks, and 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, October 30, 2009. 

transmission from Ms. Beattie to the Federal Reserve  Bank of 
New York, November 2, 2009. 

Page  3 

