DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Requests by six Reserve Banks to maintain 
the existing rate; request by one Reserve Bank to decrease the primary credit 
rate; and requests by five Reserve Banks to increase the primary credit rate. 

Existing rate maintained. 
June 15, 2015. 

Subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and New York had voted on June 4, 2015, and 
the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and San 
Francisco had voted on June 11, to reestablish the existing rate for discounts and 
advances (3/4 percent) under the primary credit program (primary credit rate).  The 
directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis had voted on June 4 to establish 
a rate of 1/2 percent (a decrease from 3/4 percent).  The directors of the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Philadelphia and Richmond had voted on June 4, and the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas had voted on 
June 11, to establish a rate of 1 percent (an increase from 3/4 percent).  At its meeting 
on April 27, the Board had taken no action on requests by the Philadelphia, Cleveland, 
Kansas City, and Dallas Reserve Banks to increase, and by the Minneapolis Reserve 
Bank to decrease, the primary credit rate in the same manner as currently requested. 

Federal Reserve Bank directors noted that the economy was expanding at a 

moderate pace after a slowdown in growth earlier in the year that partly reflected 
temporary factors.  Directors generally remained positive about the prospects for 
economic growth going forward, citing recent positive economic data for some sectors 
and regions.  Several directors reported improvements in housing market activity. 
Reports on consumer spending and business investment were mixed.  Most directors 
noted further improvements in labor markets, and several reported increasing wage 
pressures, attributable in part to a lack of qualified candidates in some industries and 
parts of the country. Inflation continued to run below the Federal Reserve's 2 percent 
objective, although it was expected to rise over time.  Against this backdrop, most 
directors recommended that the current primary credit rate be maintained. 

However, other Federal Reserve Bank directors viewed current and anticipated 

economic conditions as warranting either an increase or a decrease in the primary 
credit rate.  Some directors supported increasing the primary credit rate by 25 basis 
points (to 1 percent), while other directors favored reducing the rate by 25 basis points 
(to 1/2 percent).  The directors requesting an increase, which would widen the spread 
between the primary credit rate and the upper end of the target range for the federal 
funds rate to 75 basis points, favored a move back toward the pre-crisis spread in light 

Page  1 

of their outlook for economic and financial conditions as well as the risks to that outlook. 
Those directors favoring a reduction in the primary credit rate believed that a lower 
setting would be appropriate in light of the outlook for weaker economic growth this year 
and ongoing subdued inflation. 

Today, Board members considered the primary credit rate and discussed, on a 

preliminary basis, their individual assessments of the appropriate rate and its 
communication, which would be discussed at the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee this week.  No sentiment was expressed for changing the primary credit rate 
before the Committee's meeting, and the existing rate was maintained.  Thereafter, a 
discussion of economic and financial developments and issues related to possible 
policy actions took place. 

Participating in this determination:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governors Powell and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, June 15, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, June 12, 2015. 

2015. 

DISCOUNT AND ADVANCE RATES -- Renewal by twelve Reserve Banks of the 
formulas for calculating the secondary and seasonal credit rates. 

Approved. 
June 15, 2015. 

The Board approved renewal by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New 
York, Philadelphia, Richmond, and Minneapolis on June 4, 2015, and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San 
Francisco on June 11, of the formulas for calculating the rates applicable to discounts 
and advances under the secondary and seasonal credit programs. 

Voting for this action:  Chair Yellen, Vice Chairman Fischer, and

 Governors Powell and Brainard. 

Background: 
Implementation:  Transmissions from Mr. Frierson to the Reserve Banks, June 15, 

Office of the Secretary memorandum, June 12, 2015. 

2015. 

Page  2 

